LMHOSTS(5)                                                          LMHOSTS(5)



NAME
       lmhosts - The Samba NetBIOS hosts file

SYNOPSIS
       lmhosts is the samba(7) NetBIOS name to IP address mapping file.

DESCRIPTION
       This file is part of the samba(7) suite.

       lmhosts  is  the  Samba  NetBIOS name to IP address mapping file. It is
       very similar to the /etc/hosts file format, except  that  the  hostname
       component must correspond to the NetBIOS naming format.

FILE FORMAT
       It  is  an  ASCII  file  containing  one line for NetBIOS name. The two
       fields on each line are separated from each other by white  space.  Any
       entry beginning with '#' is ignored. Each line in the lmhosts file con-
       tains the following information:

       o  IP Address - in dotted decimal format.

       o  NetBIOS Name - This name format is a maximum fifteen character  host
          name,  with  an optional trailing '#' character followed by the Net-
          BIOS name type as two hexadecimal digits.

          If the trailing '#' is omitted then the given  IP  address  will  be
          returned  for all names that match the given name, whatever the Net-
          BIOS name type in the lookup.

       An example follows:




       #
       # Sample Samba lmhosts file.
       #
       192.9.200.1    TESTPC
       192.9.200.20   NTSERVER#20
       192.9.200.21   SAMBASERVER



       Contains three IP to NetBIOS name mappings. The first and third will be
       returned  for  any  queries  for  the  names "TESTPC" and "SAMBASERVER"
       respectively,  whatever  the  type  component  of  the   NetBIOS   name
       requested.

       The  second mapping will be returned only when the "0x20" name type for
       a name "NTSERVER" is queried. Any other name type will not be resolved.

       The  default  location  of the lmhosts file is in the same directory as
       the smb.conf(5) file.

FILES
       lmhosts is loaded from the configuration  directory.  This  is  usually
       /etc/samba or /usr/local/samba/lib.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0 of the Samba suite.

SEE ALSO
       smbclient(1), smb.conf(5), and smbpasswd(8)

AUTHOR
       The  original  Samba  software  and  related  utilities were created by
       Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by the Samba Team  as  an  Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.

       The  original  Samba  man pages were written by Karl Auer. The man page
       sources were converted to YODL format (another excellent piece of  Open
       Source  software,  available  at  ftp://ftp.icce.rug.nl/pub/unix/)  and
       updated for the Samba 2.0 release by Jeremy Allison. The conversion  to
       DocBook for Samba 2.2 was done by Gerald Carter. The conversion to Doc-
       Book XML 4.2 was done by Alexander Bokovoy.




