mime.types(5)                     Apple Inc.                     mime.types(5)



NAME
       mime.types - mime type description file for cups

DESCRIPTION
       The mime.types file defines the recognized file types.

       Additional  file  types  can  be added to mime.types or (preferably) in
       additional files in the CUPS configuration directory with the extension
       ".types".

       Each  line  in  the  mime.types file is a comment, blank, or rule line.
       Comment lines start with the # character. Rule  lines  start  with  the
       MIME type name and are optionally followed by a series of file recogni-
       tion rules that are used to automatically identify print and web files:

           super/type rule [ ... ruleN]
       The rules may be grouped using parenthesis, joined using "+" for a log-
       ical AND and "," or whitespace for a logical OR, and negated using "!".

RULES
       Rules  take  two  forms  - a filename extension by itself and functions
       with test values inside parenthesis. The following functions are avail-
       able:

       match("pattern")
            Pattern match on filename

       ascii(offset,length)
            True if bytes are valid printable ASCII (CR, NL, TAB, BS, 32-126)

       printable(offset,length)
            True  if bytes are printable 8-bit chars (CR, NL, TAB, BS, 32-126,
            128-254)

       string(offset,"string")
            True if bytes are identical to string

       istring(offset,"string")
            True if a case-insensitive comparison of the bytes is identical

       char(offset,value)
            True if byte is identical

       short(offset,value)
            True if 16-bit integer is identical

       int(offset,value)
            True if 32-bit integer is identical

       locale("string")
            True if current locale matches string

       contains(offset,range,"string")
            True if the range contains the string

STRING CONSTANTS
       String constants can be specified inside quotes ("") for  strings  con-
       taining whitespace and angle brackets (<>) for hexadecimal strings.

SEE ALSO
       classes.conf(5),   cupsd(8),   cupsd.conf(5),   mime.convs(5),   print-
       ers.conf(5),
       http://localhost:631/help

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007 by Apple Inc.



