RTADVD.CONF(5)              BSD File Formats Manual             RTADVD.CONF(5)

NAME
     rtadvd.conf -- config file for router advertisement daemon

DESCRIPTION
     This file describes how the router advertisement packets must be con-
     structed for each of the interfaces.

     As described in rtadvd(8), you do not have to set this configuration file
     up at all, unless you need some special configurations.  You may even
     omit the file as a whole.  In such cases, the rtadvd daemon will automat-
     ically configure itself using default values specified in the specifica-
     tion.

     It obeys the famous termcap(5) file format.  Each line in the file
     describes a network interface.  Fields are separated by a colon (`:'),
     and each field contains one capability description.  Lines may be con-
     catenated by the `\' character.  The comment marker is the `#' character.

CAPABILITIES
     Capabilities describe the value to be filled into ICMPv6 router adver-
     tisement messages and to control rtadvd(8) behavior.  Therefore, you are
     encouraged to read IETF neighbor discovery documents if you would like to
     modify the sample configuration file.

     Note that almost all items have default values.  If you omit an item, the
     default value of the item will be used.

     There are two items which control the interval of sending router adver-
     tisements.  These items can be omitted, then rtadvd will use the default
     values.

     maxinterval
             (num) The maximum time allowed between sending unsolicited multi-
             cast router advertisements (unit: seconds).  The default value is
             600.  Its value must be no less than 4 seconds and no greater
             than 1800 seconds.

     mininterval
             (num) The minimum time allowed between sending unsolicited multi-
             cast router advertisements (unit: seconds).  The default value is
             the one third of value of maxinterval.  Its value must be no less
             than 3 seconds and no greater than .75 * the value of
             maxinterval.

     The following items are for ICMPv6 router advertisement message header.
     These items can be omitted, then rtadvd will use the default values.

     chlim   (num) The value for Cur Hop Limit field.  The default value is
             64.

     raflags
             (num) Flags field in router advertisement message header.  Bit 7
             (0x80) means Managed address configuration flag bit, and Bit 6
             (0x40) means Other stateful configuration flag bit.  Bit 4 (0x10)
             and Bit 3 (0x08) are used to encode router preference.  0x01
             means high, 0x00 means medium, and 0x11 means low.  The default
             value is 0.

     rltime  (num) Router lifetime field (unit: seconds).  Its value must be
             no greater than 3600000.  When rtadvd runs on a host, this value
             must explicitly set 0 on all the advertising interfaces as
             described in rtadvd(8).  The default value is 1800.

     rtime   (num) Reachable time field (unit: milliseconds).  The default
             value is 0, which means unspecified by this router.

     retrans
             (num) Retrans Timer field (unit: milliseconds).  The default
             value is 0, which means unspecified by this router.

     The following items are for ICMPv6 prefix information option, which will
     be attached to router advertisement header.  These items can be omitted,
     then rtadvd will automatically get appropriate prefixes from the kernel's
     routing table, and advertise the prefixes with the default parameters.

     clockskew
             (num) Time skew to adjust link propagation delays and clock skews
             betwen routers on the link (unit: seconds).  This value is used
             in consistency check for locally-configured and advertised prefix
             lifetimes, and has its meaning when the local router configures a
             prefix on the link with a lifetime that decrements in real time.
             If the value is 0, it means the consistency check will be skipped
             for such prefixes.  The default value is 0.

     addrs   (num) Number of prefixes.  Its default is 0, so it must explic-
             itly be set to positve values if you want to specify any prefix
             information option.  If its value is 0, rtadvd(8) looks up the
             system routing table and advertise the prefixes corresponding to
             interface routes on the interface.  If its value is more than 1,
             you must specify the index of the prefix for each item below.
             Indices vary from 0 to N-1, where N is the value of addrs.  Each
             index shall follow the name of each item, e.g., ``prefixlen2''.

     prefixlen
             (num) Prefix length field.  The default value is 64.

     pinfoflags
             (num) Flags field in prefix information option.  Bit 7 (0x80)
             means On-link flag bit, and Bit 6 (0x40) means Autonomous
             address-configuration flag bit.  The default value is 0xc0, i.e.,
             both bits are set.

     addr    (str) The address filled into Prefix field.  Since ``:'' is used
             for termcap(5) file format as well as IPv6 numeric address, the
             field MUST be quoted by doublequote character.  This field cannot
             be omitted if the value of addrs is more than 0.

     vltime  (num) Valid lifetime field (unit: seconds).  The default value is
             2592000 (30 days).

     vltimedecr
             (bool) This item means the advertised valid lifetime will decre-
             ments in real time, which is disabled by default.

     pltime  (num) Preferred lifetime field (unit: seconds).  The default
             value is 604800 (7 days).

     pltimedecr
             (bool) This item means the advertised preferred lifetime will
             decrements in real time, which is disabled by default.

     The following item is for ICMPv6 MTU option, which will be attached to
     router advertisement header.  This item can be omitted, then rtadvd will
     use the default value.

     mtu     (num or str) MTU (maximum transmission unit) field.  If 0 is
             specified, it means that the option will not be included.  The
             default value is 0.  If the special string ``auto'' is specified
             for this item, MTU option will be included and its value will be
             set to the interface MTU automatically.

     The following item controls ICMPv6 source link-layer address option,
     which will be attached to router advertisement header.  As noted above,
     you can just omit the item, then rtadvd will use the default value.

     nolladdr
             (bool) By default (if nolladdr is not specified), rtadvd(8) will
             try to get link-layer address for the interface from the kernel,
             and attach that in source link-layer address option.  If this
             capability exists, rtadvd(8) will not attach source link-layer
             address option to router advertisement packets.

     The following item controls ICMPV6 home agent information option, which
     was defined with mobile IPv6 support.  It will be attached to router
     advertisement header just like other options do.

     hapref  (num) Specifies home agent preference.  If set to non-zero,
             hatime must be present as well.

     hatime  (num) Specifies home agent lifetime.

     When mobile IPv6 support is turned on for rtadvd(8), advertisement inter-
     val option will be attached to router advertisement packet, by configur-
     ing maxinterval explicitly.

     The following items are for ICMPv6 route information option, which will
     be attached to router advertisement header.  These items are optional.

     routes  (num) Number of routes.  Its default is 0, so it must explicitly
             be set to positve values if you want to specify any route infor-
             mation option.  If its value is 0, no route information is sent.
             If its value is more than 1, you must specify the index of the
             routes for each item below.  Indices vary from 0 to N-1, where N
             is the value of routes. Each index shall follow the name of each
             item, e.g., ``rtrplen2''.

     rtrplen
             (num) Prefix length field in route information option.  The
             default value is 64.

     rtrflags
             (num) Flags field in route information option.  Bit 4 (0x10) and
             and Bit 3 (0x08) are used to encode router preference for the
             route.  The default value is 0x00, i.e. medium router preference.

     rtrprefix
             (str) The prefix filled into the Prefix field of route informa-
             tion option.  Since ``:'' is used for termcap(5) file format as
             well as IPv6 numeric address, the field MUST be quoted by double-
             quote character.  This field cannot be omitted if the value of
             addrs is more than 0.

     rtrltime
             (num) route lifetime field in route information option.  (unit:
             seconds).  The default value is 2592000 (30 days). (not specified
             in draft-draves-router-selection-01.txt now)
     You can also refer one line from another by using tc capability.  See
     termcap(5) for details on the capability.

EXAMPLES
     As presented above, all of the advertised parameters have default values
     defined in specifications, and hence you usually do not have to set them
     by hand, unless you need special non-default values.  It can cause inter-
     operability problem if you use an ill-configured parameter.

     To override a configuration parameter, you can specify the parameter
     alone.  With the following configuration, rtadvd(8) overrides the router
     lifetime parameter for the ne0 interface.

     ne0:\
             :rltime#0:

     The following example manually configures prefixes advertised from the
     ef0 interface.  The configuration must be used with the -s option to
     rtadvd(8).

     ef0:\
             :addrs#1:addr="3ffe:501:ffff:1000::":prefixlen#64:

     The following example presents the default values in an explicit manner.
     The configuration is provided just for reference purposes; YOU DO NOT
     NEED TO HAVE IT AT ALL.

     default:\
             :chlim#64:raflags#0:rltime#1800:rtime#0:retrans#0:\
             :pinfoflags#192:vltime#2592000:pltime#604800:mtu#0:
     ef0:\
             :addrs#1:addr="3ffe:501:ffff:1000::":prefixlen#64:tc=default:

SEE ALSO
     termcap(5), rtadvd(8), rtsol(8)

     Thomas Narten, Erik Nordmark and W. A. Simpson, ``Neighbor Discovery for
     IP version 6 (IPv6)'', RFC 2461

     Richard Draves, ``Default Router Preferences and More-Specific Routes'',
     draft-ietf-ipngwg-router-selection-01.txt

HISTORY
     The rtadvd(8) and the configuration file rtadvd.conf first appeared in
     WIDE Hydrangea IPv6 protocol stack kit.

