SLAPD-BDB(5)                                                      SLAPD-BDB(5)



NAME
       slapd-bdb, slapd-hdb - Berkeley DB backends to slapd

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The  bdb  backend  to slapd(8) is the recommended primary backend for a
       normal slapd database.  It uses the Sleepycat Berkeley DB (BDB) package
       to store data.  It makes extensive use of indexing and caching to speed
       data access.

       hdb is a variant of the bdb backend that uses a  hierarchical  database
       layout which supports subtree renames. It is otherwise identical to the
       bdb behavior, and all the same configuration options apply.

       It is noted that these options are intended to complement  Berkeley  DB
       configuration  options  set  in  the environment's DB_CONFIG file.  See
       Berkeley  DB  documentation  for  details  on  DB_CONFIG  configuration
       options.   Where  there  is  overlap, settings in DB_CONFIG take prece-
       dence.

CONFIGURATION
       These slapd.conf options apply to the bdb  and  hdb  backend  database.
       That  is,  they must follow a "database bdb" or "database hdb" line and
       come before any subsequent "backend" or "database" lines.  Other  data-
       base options are described in the slapd.conf(5) manual page.

       cachesize <integer>
              Specify  the  size in entries of the in-memory entry cache main-
              tained by the bdb or hdb backend database instance.  The default
              is 1000 entries.

       cachefree <integer>
              Specify  the number of entries to free from the entry cache when
              the cache reaches the cachesize limit.  The default is 1  entry.

       checkpoint <kbyte> <min>
              Specify the frequency for checkpointing the database transaction
              log.  A checkpoint operation flushes  the  database  buffers  to
              disk  and writes a checkpoint record in the log.  The checkpoint
              will occur if either <kbyte> data has been written or <min> min-
              utes  have  passed  since  the  last checkpoint.  Both arguments
              default to zero, in which case they are ignored. When the  <min>
              argument is non-zero, an internal task will run every <min> min-
              utes to perform the checkpoint.  See the Berkeley  DB  reference
              guide for more details.

       dbconfig <Berkeley-DB-setting>
              Specify  a configuration directive to be placed in the DB_CONFIG
              file of the database directory. The dbconfig directive is just a
              convenience  to  allow  all necessary configuration to be set in
              the slapd.conf file.  The options set using this directive  will
              only be written to the DB_CONFIG file if no such file existed at
              server startup time. This allows one to set initial values with-
              out  overwriting/destroying  a  DB_CONFIG  file that was already
              customized through other means.  This directive may be specified
              multiple times, as needed.  For example:
                   dbconfig set_cachesize 0 1048576 0
                   dbconfig set_lg_bsize 2097152

       dbnosync
              Specify that on-disk database contents should not be immediately
              synchronized with in memory changes.  Enabling this  option  may
              improve  performance  at  the expense of data security.  See the
              Berkeley DB reference guide for more details.

       directory <directory>
              Specify the directory where the BDB files containing this  data-
              base  and associated indexes live.  A separate directory must be
              specified for each  database.   The  default  is  /var/db/openl-
              dap/openldap-data.

       dirtyread
              Allow  reads  of  modified  but not yet committed data.  Usually
              transactions are  isolated  to  prevent  other  operations  from
              accessing  uncommitted  data.   This  option may improve perfor-
              mance, but may also return  inconsistent  results  if  the  data
              comes  from  a transaction that is later aborted.  In this case,
              the modified data is discarded  and  a  subsequent  search  will
              return a different result.

       idlcachesize <integer>
              Specify  the  size of the in-memory index cache, in index slots.
              The default is zero. A  larger  value  will  speed  up  frequent
              searches  of indexed entries. An hdb database needs a large idl-
              cachesize for good search performance, typically three times the
              cachesize (entry cache size) or larger.

       index {<attrlist>|default} [pres,eq,approx,sub,<special>]
              Specify the indexes to maintain for the given attribute (or list
              of attributes).   Some  attributes  only  support  a  subset  of
              indexes.   If only an <attr> is given, the indices specified for
              default are maintained.  Note that setting a  default  does  not
              imply  that  all attributes will be indexed. Also, for best per-
              formance, an eq  index  should  always  be  configured  for  the
              objectClass attribute.

              A  number  of  special  index  parameters may be specified.  The
              index type sub can be decomposed  into  subinitial,  subany, and
              subfinal  indices.   The special type nolang may be specified to
              disallow use of this index by language  subtypes.   The  special
              type  nosubtypes  may be specified to disallow use of this index
              by  named  subtypes.    Note:   changing   index   settings   in
              slapd.conf(5)  requires  rebuilding  indices,  see slapindex(8);
              changing index settings dynamically by LDAPModifying "cn=config"
              automatically causes rebuilding of the indices online in a back-
              ground task.

       linearindex
              Tell slapindex to index one attribute at a time. By default, all
              indexed  attributes  in an entry are processed at the same time.
              With this option, each indexed attribute is processed  individu-
              ally,  using  multiple  passes through the entire database. This
              option improves slapindex performance  when  the  database  size
              exceeds the dbcache size. When the dbcache is large enough, this
              option is not needed and will  decrease  performance.   Also  by
              default,  slapadd  performs  full  indexing  and  so  a separate
              slapindex run is not needed. With this option, slapadd  does  no
              indexing and slapindex must be used.

       lockdetect {oldest|youngest|fewest|random|default}
              Specify  which transaction to abort when a deadlock is detected.
              The default is random.

       mode <integer>
              Specify the file protection mode  that  newly  created  database
              index files should have.  The default is 0600.

       searchstack <depth>
              Specify  the  depth  of the stack used for search filter evalua-
              tion.  Search filters are evaluated on a  stack  to  accommodate
              nested AND / OR clauses. An individual stack is assigned to each
              server thread.  The depth of the stack determines how complex  a
              filter  can be evaluated without requiring any additional memory
              allocation. Filters that are nested deeper than the search stack
              depth  will cause a separate stack to be allocated for that par-
              ticular search operation. These allocations  can  have  a  major
              negative  impact  on server performance, but specifying too much
              stack will also consume a great deal  of  memory.   Each  search
              stack  uses 512K bytes per level. The default stack depth is 16,
              thus 8MB per thread is used.

       shm_key <integer>
              Specify a key for a shared memory BDB  environment.  By  default
              the  BDB  environment  uses  memory  mapped files. If a non-zero
              value is specified, it will be used as the  key  to  identify  a
              shared memory region that will house the environment.

ACCESS CONTROL
       The bdb and hdb backends honor access control semantics as indicated in
       slapd.access(5).

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

       DB_CONFIG
              Berkeley DB configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd(8), slapadd(8), slapcat(8), slapindex(8), Berkeley
       DB documentation.



