SLAPO-TRANSLUCENT(5)                                      SLAPO-TRANSLUCENT(5)



NAME
       slapo-translucent - Translucent Proxy overlay

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The  Translucent Proxy overlay can be used with a backend database such
       as slapd-bdb(5) to create a  "translucent  proxy".   Entries  retrieved
       from  a  remote LDAP server may have some or all attributes overridden,
       or new attributes added, by entries in the local database before  being
       presented to the client.

       A search operation is first populated with entries from the remote LDAP
       server, the attributes of which are then overridden with any attributes
       defined  in  the  local database. Local overrides may be populated with
       the add, modify , and modrdn operations, the use of which is restricted
       to the root user.

       A  compare  operation will perform a comparison with attributes defined
       in the local database record (if any) before  any  comparison  is  made
       with data in the remote database.

CONFIGURATION
       The  Translucent  Proxy overlay uses a remote LDAP server which is con-
       figured with the options  shown  in  slapd-ldap(5).   These  slapd.conf
       options  are specific to the Translucent Proxy overlay; they may appear
       anywhere after the overlay directive and before any subsequent database
       directive.

       translucent_strict
              By default, attempts to delete attributes in either the local or
              remote  databases  will  be  silently  ignored.   The   translu-
              cent_strict  directive causes these modifications to fail with a
              Constraint Violation.

       translucent_no_glue
              This configuration option disables  the  automatic  creation  of
              "glue"  records  for  an  add or modrdn operation, such that all
              parents of an entry added to the local database must be  created
              by hand. Glue records are always created for a modify operation.

CAVEATS
       The Translucent Proxy overlay will disable schema checking in the local
       database,  so  that  an entry consisting of overlay attributes need not
       adhere to the complete schema.

       Because the translucent overlay does not perform any DN rewrites,   the
       local  and  remote database instances must have the same suffix.  Other
       configurations will probably fail with No Such Object and other errors.

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapd-ldap(5).



