SLAPO-SYNCPROV(5)                                            SLAPO-SYNCPROV(5)



NAME
       slapo-syncprov - Sync Provider overlay

SYNOPSIS
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf

DESCRIPTION
       The  Sync Provider overlay implements the provider-side support for the
       LDAP Content Synchronization (RFC4533) as well as syncrepl  replication
       support.   The  overlay  can  be  used  with any backend that maintains
       entryCSN and entryUUID attributes for its entries. It  also  creates  a
       contextCSN attribute in the root entry of the database.

       The  contextCSN  is updated for every write operation performed against
       the database. To reduce database contention,  the  contextCSN  is  only
       updated in memory. The value is written to the database on server shut-
       down and read into memory on startup, and maintained in  memory  there-
       after.  Checkpoints  may be configured to write the contextCSN into the
       underlying database to minimize recovery time after  an  unclean  shut-
       down.

       Note  that due to deadlock constraints in the LDBM database, this over-
       lay will only work in RefreshOnly mode, and cannot perform checkpoints,
       on LDBM.

       On  databases that support inequality indexing, it is helpful to set an
       eq index on the entryCSN attribute when using this overlay.

CONFIGURATION
       These slapd.conf options apply to  the  Sync  Provider  overlay.   They
       should appear after the overlay directive.

       syncprov-checkpoint <ops> <minutes>
              After  a  write operation has succeeded, write the contextCSN to
              the underlying database if <ops> write operations or  more  than
              <minutes>  time  have  passed  since the last checkpoint. Check-
              pointing is disabled by default.

       syncprov-sessionlog <ops>
              Specify a session log  for  recording  information  about  write
              operations made on the database.  The <ops> specifies the number
              of operations that are recorded in the log. All write operations
              (except  Adds)  are recorded in the log.  When using the session
              log, it is helpful to set an eq index on the entryUUID attribute
              in the underlying database.

       syncprov-nopresent TRUE | FALSE
              Specify  that the Present phase of refreshing should be skipped.
              This value should only be set TRUE for a  syncprov  instance  on
              top  of  a  log  database  (such as one managed by the accesslog
              overlay).  The default is FALSE.

       syncprov-reloadhint TRUE | FALSE
              Specify that the overlay should honor the reloadHint flag in the
              Sync  Control.  In OpenLDAP releases 2.3.11 and earlier the syn-
              crepl consumer did not properly set this flag,  so  the  overlay
              must ignore it. This option should be set TRUE when working with
              newer releases that properly support this flag. It must  be  set
              TRUE  when  using the accesslog overlay for delta-based syncrepl
              support.  The default is FALSE.

FILES
       /etc/openldap/slapd.conf
              default slapd configuration file

SEE ALSO
       slapd.conf(5), slapo-accesslog(5).  OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide.



