svnserve.conf(5)                                              svnserve.conf(5)



NAME
       svnserve.conf - Repository configuration file for svnserve

SYNOPSIS
       repository-path/conf/svnserve.conf

DESCRIPTION
       svnserve.conf  controls  the  behavior of the svnserve daemon on a per-
       repository basis.  It is located in the conf subdirectory of the repos-
       itory.

       The  overall structure of the file is the same as the structure of Sub-
       version user configuration files.  At the top level are sections, which
       are  specified  by  words  in  square brackets; inside each section are
       variable definitions of the form "variable = value".   Lines  beginning
       with  '#'  are  ignored.  svnserve.conf currently uses only one section
       named "general", and supports the following variables:


       anon-access = none|read|write
            Determines the access  level  for  unauthenticated  users.   write
            access  allows  all repository operations.  read access allows all
            operations except committing  and  changing  revision  properties.
            none access allows no access.  The default level is read.


       auth-access = none|read|write
            Determines  the  access  level  for authenticated users, using the
            same access levels as above.  The default level is write.


       password-db = filename
            Sets the location of the password database.  filename may be rela-
            tive to the repository conf directory.  There is no default value.
            The password database has the same overall format  as  this  file.
            It uses only one section "users"; each variable within the section
            is a username, and each value is a password.


       realm = realm-name
            Sets the authentication realm of the repository.  If two reposito-
            ries  have  the  same password database, they should have the same
            realm, and vice versa; this association allows clients  to  use  a
            single  cached  password  for  several  repositories.  The default
            realm value is the repository's uuid.

EXAMPLE
       The following example svnserve.conf allows read  access  for  authenti-
       cated users, no access for anonymous users, points to a passwd database
       in the same directory, and defines a realm name.

        [general]
        anon-access = none
        auth-access = read
        password-db = passwd
        realm = My First Repository

       The file "passwd" would look like:

        [users]
        joeuser = joepassword
        jayrandom = randomjay

SEE ALSO
       svnserve(8)



