
ASR(8)                    BSD System Manager's Manual                   ASR(8)

NAME
     asr -- Apple Software Restore; copy volumes (e.g. from disk images)

SYNOPSIS
     asr verb [options]
     asr restore --source source --target target [options]
     asr server --source source --config configuration [options]
     asr restore --source asr://source --file file [options]
     asr imagescan --source image [options]
     asr help | version

DESCRIPTION
     asr efficiently copies disk images onto volumes, either directly or via a
     multicast network stream.  asr can also accurately clone volumes without
     the use of an intermediate disk image.

     In its first form, asr copies source (usually a disk image, potentially
     on an HTTP server) to target.  source can be specified using a path in
     the filesystem, or an http or https URL.  It can also be an asr:// URL to
     indicate a multicast source.  asr can also be invoked with its second
     form to act as a multicast server.  In its third form, asr will restore a
     multicast disk image to a file instead of disk volume.  In its fourth
     form, asr prepares a disk image to be restored efficiently, adding whole-
     volume and (optionally) file by file checksum information.  help and
     version provide usage and version information, respectively.

     source and target can be /dev entries or volume mountpoints.  If restor-
     ing a multicast disk image to a file, file can be a path to a local file
     or directory. If the specified path is a file, the disk image is given
     the specified name. If a directory, the name of the disk image being mul-
     ticast is used. When specifying server, source has to be a UDIF disk
     image. Restoring from a multicast stream is accomplished by passing a
     asr:// url as source.  By default, asr will restore in place, and will
     not bless (see bless(8)) any folders.  If --erase is specified, any
     blessed folders on the source will also be blessed on the target.
           bless -info /Volumes/<vol>
     will display current blessed folders for the given volume.

     asr generally needs to be run as root (see sudo(8)) in order to accom-
     plish its tasks.

VERBS
     Each verb is listed with its description and individual arguments.

     restore    restores a disk image or volume to another volume (including a
                mounted disk image)

                --source       can be a disk image, /dev entry, or volume
                               mountpoint. In the latter two cases, the volume
                               must be unmountable or mounted read-only in
                               order for a erase blockcopy to occur (thus, one
                               cannot erase blockcopy the root filesystem as
                               the source, unless it happened to be mounted
                               read-only).

                --target       can be a /dev entry, or volume mountpoint. Must
                               be unmountable in order for a erase blockcopy
                               to occur.

                --file         when performing a multicast restore, --file can
                               be specified instead of --target. If the speci-
                               fied path is a file, the disk image is given
                               the specified name. If a directory, the name of
                               the disk image being multicast is used.

                --erase        erase erases target and is required if a fast
                               block-copy restore is desired.  By default asr
                               will do a restore-in-place.  Duplicate items
                               will not harm target contents, but files will
                               be replaced.  If source is a asr:// url for
                               restoring from a multicast stream, --erase must
                               be passed (multicasting only supports erase
                               block-copy restores).  Passing --erase with
                               --file indicates any existing file should be
                               overwritten when doing a multicast file copy.

                --updatebless  When performing a non-erase restore,
                               --updatebless will update the appropriate
                               information required for the restored volume to
                               boot if the source image is bootable (equiva-
                               lent to sudo bless --mount <volume> --setBoot).

                --format HFS+ | HFSX
                               specifies the destination filesystem format,
                               when --erase is also given. If not specified,
                               the destination will be formatted with the same
                               filesystem format as the source. If multicast-
                               ing, the --format specified must be block copy
                               compatible with the source.  --format is
                               ignored if --erase is not used. Note: HFS Jour-
                               naling is an attribute of the source image, and
                               is not affected by --format.

                --noprompt     suppresses the prompt which usually occurs
                               before target is erased.  newfs_hfs(8) will be
                               called on target and once you start writing new
                               data, there isn't much hope for recovery.  You
                               have been warned.

                --timeout num  specifies num seconds that a multicast client
                               should wait when no payload data has been
                               received over a multicast stream before exit-
                               ing, allowing the client to stop in case of
                               server failure/stoppage.  It defaults to 0
                               (e.g. never time out).

                --puppetstrings
                               provide progress output that is easy for
                               another program to parse.  Any program trying
                               to interpret asr's progress should use
                               --puppetstrings.

                --noverify     skips the verification steps normally taken to
                               ensure that a volume has been properly
                               restored.  --noverify allows images which have
                               not been scanned to be restored.  Skipping ver-
                               ification is dangerous for a number of reasons
                               and should never be used in production systems.

                --disableOwners
                               prevents the default owner-enabling behavior
                               for source and target.  Enabling owners is usu-
                               ally very important for accurate file-by-file
                               copying.  In block-copy restore mode,
                               --disableOwners has no effect.

                --wrapper      forces an HFS wrapper to be created on the tar-
                               get volume if the --erase option is used.  Nor-
                               mally the creation of a wrapper depends on cer-
                               tain filesystem variables.  --wrapper is
                               ignored if --erase is not used.

                --nowrapper    forces an HFS wrapper to not be created on the
                               target volume if the --erase option is used.
                               Normally the creation of a wrapper depends on
                               certain filesystem variables.  --nowrapper is
                               ignored if --erase is not used.

     server     multicasts source over the network. Requires --erase be passed
                in by clients (multicasting only supports erase block-copy
                restores).

                --source   source has to be a UDIF disk image. A path to a
                           disk image on a local/remote volume can be passed
                           in, or a http:// url to a disk image that is acces-
                           sible via a web server.

                --interface
                           the network interface to be used for multicasting
                           (e.g. en0) instead of the default network inter-
                           face.

                --config   server requires a configuration file to be passed,
                           in standard property list format.  The following
                           keys/options configure the various parameters for
                           multicast operation.

                Required

                Data Rate              this is the desired data rate in bytes
                                       per second.  On average, the stream
                                       will go slightly slower than this
                                       speed, but will never exceed it.  It's
                                       a number in the plist (-int when set
                                       with defaults(1)).

                                       Note: The performance/reliability of
                                       the networking infrastructure being
                                       multicast on is an important factor in
                                       determining what data rate can be sup-
                                       ported. Excessive/bursty packet loss
                                       for a given data rate could be due to
                                       an inability of the server/client to be
                                       able to send/receive multicast data at
                                       that rate, but it's equally important
                                       to verify that the network infrastruc-
                                       ture can support multicasting at the
                                       requested rate.

                Multicast Address      this is the Multicast address for the
                                       data stream. It's a string in the
                                       plist.

                Optional

                Client Data Rate       this is the rate the slowest client can
                                       write data to its target in bytes per
                                       second.  if asr misses data on the
                                       first pass (x's during progress) and
                                       slowing the Data Rate doesn't resolve
                                       it, setting the Client Data Rate will
                                       dynamically regulate the speed of the
                                       multicast stream to allow clients more
                                       time to write the data. It's a number
                                       in the plist (-int when set with
                                       defaults(1)).

                DNS Service Discovery  whether the server should be advertised
                                       via DNS Service Discovery, a.k.a. Bon-
                                       jour (tm).  It defaults to true.  It's
                                       a boolean in the plist (-bool when set
                                       with defaults(1)).

                Loop Suspend           a limit of the number of times to mul-
                                       ticast the image file when no clients
                                       have started a restore operation. Once
                                       exceeded, the server will stop the
                                       stream and wait for new clients before
                                       multicasting the image file. It
                                       defaults to 0 (e.g. never stop multi-
                                       casting once a client starts the
                                       stream), and should not be set to <2.
                                       It's a number in the plist (-int when
                                       set with defaults(1)).

                Multicast TTL          the time to live on the multicast pack-
                                       ets (for multicasting through routers).
                                       It defaults to 3.  It cannot be set to
                                       0, and should not be set to 1 (other-
                                       wise, it could adversely affect some
                                       network routers).  It's a number in the
                                       plist (-int when set with defaults(1)).

                Port                   the port of initial client-server hand-
                                       shake, version checks, multicast
                                       restore metadata, and stream data.  It
                                       defaults to 7800.  This should only be
                                       included/modified if the default port
                                       cannot be used.  It's a number in the
                                       plist (-int when set with defaults(1)).

     imagescan  calculate checksums of the data in the provided image and
                store them in the image.  These checksums are used to ensure
                proper restores.  Also determines if the disk image is in
                order for multicasting, and rewrites the file in order if not.
                If the image has to be reordered, it will require free disk
                space equal to the size of the disk image being scanned.

                --filechecksum
                              will calculate/store checksum information
                              required to perform file copy restores.
                              --filechecksum can take a significant amount of
                              time (depending on the number of files in the
                              image), and will require the user to invoke asr
                              as root. (see sudo(8) ). Off by default. Note:
                              without file checksums, erase restores that
                              would degrade from block copy to file copy will
                              instead fail.

                --nostream    bypasses the check/reordering of a disk image
                              file for multicasting. Off by default.  Disk
                              images will be reordered for multicasting.

BUFFERING
     The following options control how asr uses memory.  These options can
     have a significant impact on performance.  asr is optimized for copying
     between devices (different disk drives, from a network volume to a local
     disk, etc).  As such, asr defaults to using eight one megabyte buffers.
     These buffers are wired down (occupying physical memory).  For partition
     to partition copies on the same device, one large buffer (e.g. 32 MB) is
     much faster than the default eight medium sized ones. For multicast, 4
     256k buffers are the default.  Custom buffering for multicast operation
     is not recommended.

     --csumbuffers and --csumbuffersize allow a different buffer configuration
     for checksumming operations.  One checksum buffer offers the best perfor-
     mance.  The default is 1 1MB buffer. Custom checksum buffering is not
     recommended.

     Like mkfile(8), size defaults to bytes but can be followed by a multi-
     plier character (e.g. 'm').

     --buffers num
                 specifies that num buffers should be used.

     --buffersize size
                 specifies the size of each buffer.

     --csumbuffers num
                 specifies that num buffers should be used for checksumming
                 operations (which only affect the target).  Custom checksum
                 buffering is not recommended.

     --csumbuffersize size
                 specifies the size of each buffer used for checksumming.
                 Custom checksum buffering is not recommended.

OTHER OPTIONS
     --verbose   enables verbose progress and error messages.
     --debug     enables other progress and error messages.

EXAMPLES
     Volume cloning:
           sudo asr restore --source /Volumes/Classic --target
           /Volumes/install

     Restoring:
           sudo asr restore -s <compressedimage> -t <targetvol> --erase

     Will erase the target and potentially do a block copy restore.

     Multicast server:
           asr server --source <compressedimage> --config
           <configuration.plist>

     Will start up a multicast server for the specified image, using the
     parameters in the configuration.plist. The image will not start multicas-
     ting on the network until a client attempts to start a restore. The
     server will continue to multicast the image until the process is termi-
     nated.

     An example multicast configuration file:
           defaults write /tmp/streamconfig "Data Rate" -int 6000000
           defaults write /tmp/streamconfig "Multicast Address" <mcastaddr>
           (will create the file /tmp/streamconfig.plist)
           <mcastaddr> should be appropriate for your network infrastructure
           and policy, usually from a range assigned by your network
           administrator.

     Multicast client
           sudo asr restore --source asr://<hostname> --target <targetvol>
           --erase

     Multicast client restoring to a file
           sudo asr restore --source asr://<hostname> --file <file> --erase
     Will receive the multicast stream from <hostname> and save it to a file.
     If <file> is a directory, the image of the streamed disk image will be
     used the save the file. --erase causes any existing file with the same
     name to be overwritten.

HOW TO USE ASR
     asr requires a properly created disk image for most efficient operation.
     This image is most easily made with the Disk Utility application's "Image
     from Folder" function in OS X 10.3.  The Disk Copy from OS X 10.2.3
     (v55.6) or later can also be used.

     Basic steps for imaging and restoring a volume:

     1.   Set up the source volume the way you want it.

     2.   Use Disk Utility's "Images -> New -> Image from Folder..." function
          and select the root of the volume.  Save the image as read-only or
          compressed.  "Images->New->Image from <device>" is not recommended
          on 10.3.x.

     3.   Scan the image with "Images -> Scan Image for Restore."

     4.   Select an image or volume and click on the "Restore" tab.  Drag the
          source image and destination partition to the source and destination
          fields.  Check "Erase Destination" if you don't need the target's
          data.  Click Restore.

HOW TO GET THE FASTEST RESTORES
     If you are trying to understand file copy (slower) vs. block copy (fast):
     When you see "Restoring...", that means the source image volume is larger
     than the target volume or the volume geometry of the source image is
     stretchable to the target size, allowing a high speed block copy to
     occur.  As of OS X version 10.3, the geometry restrictions have been sig-
     nificantly relaxed such that stretchable source images are no longer
     required.

     When you see:
     Copying "/private/tmp/..." (/dev/diskMsN) to "<target>" (/dev/diskPsQ)...
     It means the above is not true, and asr has fallen back to a file copy
     operation.  asr will only block copy if the volume geometries support it
     AND you are doing an erase restore.  If you are restoring "in place," a
     file copy is always performed.

     If some target volumes restore quickly and others slowly, the source
     image was probably created without enough stretch (i.e. "image from
     device" instead of the "image from folder" recommended above).   For
     example, if the source was a 60 GB volume, the image will block restore
     on 60 GB and smaller volumes, but file copy on an 80 GB target under OS X
     version 10.2.

     By default (given source size > 256 MB), Disk Utility will create an
     image of a volume that is block restorable to 256 GB.  If you want to
     create an image that will restore to a larger volume (say a 480 GB RAID
     set), you will need to set some defaults before you have Disk Utility
     image the volume:

           defaults write com.apple.frameworks.diskimages \
                   hfsplus-stretch-parameters -dict \
                   hfsplus-stretch-threshold 524288 \
                   hfsplus-stretch-allocation-block-size 4096 \
                   hfsplus-stretch-allocation-file-size 16777216

     will make a 512 GB stretchable volume.  By default the hfsplus-stretch-
     allocation-file-size value is 8388608 (8 MB).

     The size of the allocation file will increase image size, so it shouldn't
     be too big.  It has only been tested with sizes that are multiples of 4k.

     In addition to geometry requirements for supporting block copies, asr
     requires that the source and destination filesystems be compatible.  A
     non-HFS+ source can only be used to perform a file copy. HFS+ can be used
     as the source of a block copy to either an HFS+ or HFSX destination.
     However, an HFSX source can only be used to block copy to an HFSX desti-
     nation.  This is because case collision of file names could occur when
     converting from an HFSX filesystem to HFS+.

COMPATIBILITY
     asr maintains compatibility with previous syntax, e.g.

     asr -source source -target target [options]
     asr -source source -server configuration [options]
     asr -source asr://source -file file [options]
     asr -imagescan [options] image
     asr -h | -v

     where -source, -target, and -file are equivalent to --source, --target,
     and --file respectively, and all [options] are equivalent to their --
     descriptions.  asr -server configuration is superseded by asr server
     --config configuration.  The following deprecated options also remain:

     -nocheck   this option is deprecated, but remains for script compatibil-
                ity.  Use -noverify instead.

     -blockonly
                this option is deprecated, but remains for script compatibil-
                ity. On by default.  Note that if an image scanned with
                -blockonly cannot be block-copied to a particular target an
                error will occur, since the file-copy information was omitted.

     Note: Compatibility with previous syntax is not guaranteed in the next
     major OS release.

ERRORS
     asr will exit with status 1 if it cannot complete the requested opera-
     tion.  A human readable error message will be printed in most cases.
     Note that asr will mount the source image as part of verifying its geome-
     try (see also umount(8) and hdiutil(1) should an image get stuck in this
     situation).  Using hdiutil(1), particularly the imageinfo, verify, and
     attach verbs, can help isolate various problems in accessing the image in
     question.

HISTORY
     Apple Software Restore got its start as a field service restoration tool
     used to reconfigure computers' software to 'factory' state.  It later
     became a more general software restore mechanism and software installa-
     tion helper application for various Apple computer products.  ASR has
     been used in manufacturing processes and in shipping computers' System
     Software Installers.

     For Mac OS X, asr was rewritten as a command line tool for manufacturing
     and professional customers.  asr is the backend for the Mac OS X Software
     Restore application that shipped on Macintosh computers as well as the
     Scan and Restore functionality in Disk Utility.

     Multicast support was added to allow multiple clients to erase restore an
     image from a multicast network stream.

     Per its history, most functionality in asr is limited to HFS+ volumes.

SEE ALSO
     hdiutil(1), df(1), bless(8), and what(1)

