cups-driverd(8)                   Apple Inc.                   cups-driverd(8)



NAME
       cups-driverd - cups driver daemon

SYNOPSIS
       cups-driverd cat ppd-name
       cups-driverd list request_id limit options

DESCRIPTION
       cups-driverd  shows  or lists PPD files. It is run in response to CUPS-
       Add-Modify-Printer  or  CUPS-Get-Devices  requests.   The  first   form
       ("cups-driverd  cat ppd-name") writes the named PPD file to stdout. The
       output format is an uncompressed PPD file.

       The second form lists the available manufacturers or PPD files to  std-
       out  as  indicated by the options argument. The output format is an IPP
       response message. The request_id argument is the request  ID  from  the
       original  IPP  request,  typically  1. The Ilimit argument is the limit
       value from the original IPP request - 0 means no  limit.  Finally,  the
       options  argument  is a space-delimited list of attributes ("name=value
       name=value cups-driverd looks for the ppd-make and requested-attributes
       attributes and tailors the output accordingly.

DRIVERS
       Drivers  can be static PPD files under the /usr/share/cups/model direc-
       tory or programs under the /usr/libexec/cups/driver  directory.  Static
       PPD  files must conform to the Adobe PPD File Format Specification ver-
       sion 4.3 and may be compressed using the gzip(1) program.  Driver  pro-
       grams  must implement the command-line interface shown in the next sec-
       tion.  Driver programs provide an  interface  to  dynamically-generated
       PPD files. The following arguments are currently defined:

       drivername list
            Lists the supported PPD files to stdout.

       drivername cat ppdname
            Writes  the  named  PPD  file to stdout.  When run with the single
            argument "list", the program must list the available PPD files  it
            can generate to stdout using the following format:
                "drivername:ppdname" language "make" "make and model" "1284 device id"

       Drivername  is the name of the driver program. Ppdname is the name used
       to select the given driver. Language is the locale associated with  the
       default  language of the PPD file, typically "en". Make is the Manufac-
       turer name from the PPD file. Make and model is the NickName name  from
       the  PPD file. 1284 device id is the 1284DeviceId from the PPD file, if
       any.  When the driver program is run with the "cat ppdname"  arguments,
       it  must write the named PPD file to stdout, uncompressed. If the named
       PPD file does not exist, the driver program must not write  any  output
       to  stdout  and report the error to stderr instead.  Error messages can
       be relayed back to cupsd by writing them to stderr. The following  pre-
       fixes are recognized:

       DEBUG: [drivername]
            Debugging messages

       ERROR: [drivername]
            Error messages

       INFO: [drivername]
            Informational messages

SEE ALSO
       cupsd(8), cupsd.conf(5), cupstestppd(1),
       http://localhost:631/help

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 2007 by Apple Inc.



