hostinfo(8)               BSD System Manager's Manual              hostinfo(8)

NAME
     hostinfo -- host information

SYNOPSIS
     hostinfo

DESCRIPTION
     The hostinfo command displays information about the host system on which
     the command is executing.  The output includes a  kernel version descrip-
     tion, processor configuration data, available physical memory, and vari-
     ous scheduling statistics.

OPTIONS
     There are no options.

DISPLAY
           Mach kernel version:
           The version string compiled into the kernel executing on the host
           system.

           Processor Configuration:
           The maximum possible processors for which the kernel is configured,
           followed by the number of physical and logical processors avail-
           able.

           Processor type:
           The host's processor type and subtype.

           Processor active:
           A list of active processors on the host system.  Active processors
           are members of a processor set and are ready to dispatch threads.
           On a single processor system, the active processor, is processor 0.

           Primary memory available:
           The amount of physical memory that is configured for use on the
           host system.

           Default processor set:
           Displays the number of tasks currently assigned to the host proces-
           sor set, the number of threads currently assigned to the host pro-
           cessor set, and the number of processors included in the host pro-
           cessor set.

           Load average:
           Measures the average number of threads in the run queue.

           Mach factor:
           A variant of the load average which measures the processing
           resources available to a new thread.  Mach factor is based on the
           number of CPUs divided by (1 + the number of runnablethreads) or
           the number of CPUs minus the number of runnable threads when the
           number of runnable threads is less than the number of CPUs.  The
           closer the Mach factor value is to zero, the higher the load.  On
           an idle system with a fixed number of active processors, the mach
           factor will be equal to the number of CPUs.

SEE ALSO
     sysctl(8)

