KEXTLIBS(8)               BSD System Manager's Manual              KEXTLIBS(8)

NAME
     kextlibs -- find OSBundleLibraries needed by a kext

SYNOPSIS
     kextlibs [options] kext_bundle

DESCRIPTION
     The kextlibs utility searches for library kexts that define symbols
     needed for linking by kext_bundle, printing their bundle identifiers and
     versions.  If any symbols are not found, or are found in multiple
     libraries, they are printed to standard error after the library kext
     informtion.

     Run kextlibs with the -xml flag to get an XML fragment suitable for copy-
     ing and pasting directly into an Info.plist file.

     If no repository directories are explicitly specified, kextlibs searches
     the system extensions folder.

OPTIONS
     -h
     -help   Display a help message and exit.
     -all-symbols
             Print all symbols that remain unresolved or that are found in
             more than one library kext.  Normally only the number of missing
             and duplicate symbols is printed.
     -c
     -compatible-versions
             Print the compatible rather than the current version.
     -non-kpi
             Search the compatibility kernel extension, com.apple.kernel.6.0,
             rather than any of the com.apple.kpi.* system kexts.  Use of this
             option is not recommended: The exact kernel component (mach, bsd,
             libkern, or iokit) cannot be determined, and the compatible ver-
             sion of com.apple.kernel is locked to the current version.
     -r directory
     -repository directory
             Specifies a directory to search for dependencies.  You can use
             this to get library declarations for a set of extensions other
             than those of the running system, or to include a side directory
             of library kexts.  Note: If you specify a directory with this
             option, the system extensions folder is not implicitly searched.
     -e
     -system-extensions
             Adds the system extensions folder to the list of directories to
             search.  If you don't specify any directories or kexts, this is
             used by default.
     -xml    Print an XML fragment suitable for copying and pasting directly
             into an Info.plist file.
     --      End of options.

DIAGNOSTICS
     The kextlibs utility exits with a status of 0 on completion if all unde-
     fined symbols are found exactly once; with a status of 1 if any undefined
     symbols remain, or with a status of 2 if any symbols are found in more
     than one library kext (whether or not any undefined symbols remain), and
     with another nonzero status on some other problem.

SEE ALSO
     kextcache(8), kextload(8)

