taskgated(8)              BSD System Manager's Manual             taskgated(8)

NAME
     taskgated -- task_for_pid access control daemon

SYNOPSIS
     taskgated [-ps] [-t timeout] [-i pid]

DESCRIPTION
     taskgated is a system daemon that implements a policy for the
     task_for_pid system service.  When the kernel is asked for the task port
     of a process, and preliminary access control checks pass, it invokes this
     daemon (via launchd) to make the decision.

OPTIONS
     -p       Accepts the old (Tiger) convention that a process with a primary
              effective group of procmod or procview is allowed to get task
              ports. Without this option, this legacy mode is not supported.

     -s       Allow signed applications marked as "safe" to have free access
              to task ports, without having to pass an authorization check.
              Note that such callers must be marked both allowed and safe.

     -t timeout
              The daemon will quit after that many seconds of inactivity. It
              will be relaunched by launchd as needed. A timeout of zero can
              be specified to make the daemon quit after servicing each
              request, but a small positive timeout is better for performance.

     -i pid   Inject the service port of taskgated into the process with the
              given pid, rather than relying on launchd to install it system-
              wide. This is for testing only, and requires the launchd config-
              uration for taskgated to be removed.

AUTHORIZATION RIGHTS
     system.privilege.taskport  Authorization right used to check access of
                                allowed (but not safe) callers.

INFO KEYS
     SecTaskAccess  A value of "allowed" is required for any program that
                    wants access to task ports. A value of "safe" bypasses
                    authorization checks if so configured.  Code must be
                    signed by any system-trusted signing authority.

FILES
     /etc/authorization  to configure the authorization used.
     /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.taskgated
                         startup configuration file for taskgated

SEE ALSO
     security(1), launchd(8)

HISTORY
     taskgated was first introduced in Mac OS 10.5 (Leopard).

     Certain software updates of Mac OS 10.4 (Tiger) introduced the convention
     requiring membership in the procmod or procview groups to control task
     port access. Before that, any process could obtain the task port of any
     other process with the same user-id.

