TRPT(8)                   BSD System Manager's Manual                  TRPT(8)

NAME
     trpt -- transliterate protocol trace

SYNOPSIS
     trpt [-a] [-f] [-j] [-p hex-address] [-s] [-t] [system [core]]

DESCRIPTION
     Trpt interrogates the buffer of TCP trace records created when a socket
     is marked for ``debugging'' (see setsockopt(2)), and prints a readable
     description of these records.  When no options are supplied, trpt prints
     all the trace records found in the system grouped according to TCP con-
     nection protocol control block (PCB).  The following options may be used
     to alter this behavior.

     -a      In addition to the normal output, print the values of the source
             and destination addresses for each packet recorded.

     -f      Follow the trace as it occurs, waiting a short time for addi-
             tional records each time the end of the log is reached.

     -j      Just give a list of the protocol control block addresses for
             which there are trace records.

     -p      Show only trace records associated with the protocol control
             block at the given address hex-address.

     -s      In addition to the normal output, print a detailed description of
             the packet sequencing information.

     -t      in addition to the normal output, print the values for all timers
             at each point in the trace.

     The recommended use of trpt is as follows.  Isolate the problem and
     enable debugging on the socket(s) involved in the connection.  Find the
     address of the protocol control blocks associated with the sockets using
     the -A option to netstat(1).  Then run trpt with the -p option, supplying
     the associated protocol control block addresses.  The -f option can be
     used to follow the trace log once the trace is located.  If there are
     many sockets using the debugging option, the -j option may be useful in
     checking to see if any trace records are present for the socket in ques-
     tion.

     If debugging is being performed on a system or core file other than the
     default, the last two arguments may be used to supplant the defaults.

FILES
     /vmunix
     /dev/kmem

SEE ALSO
     netstat(1), setsockopt(2), trsp(8)

DIAGNOSTICS
     no namelist
             When the system image doesn't contain the proper symbols to find
             the trace buffer; others which should be self explanatory.

BUGS
     Should also print the data for each input or output, but this is not
     saved in the race record.

     The output format is inscrutable and should be described here.

HISTORY
     The trpt command appeared in 4.2BSD.

