VFS_CACHEPRIME(8)                                            VFS_CACHEPRIME(8)



NAME
       vfs_cacheprime - prime the kernel file data cache

SYNOPSIS
       vfs objects = cacheprime

DESCRIPTION
       This VFS module is part of the samba(7) suite.

       The  vfs_cacheprime VFS module reads chunks of file data near the range
       requested by clients in order to make sure the data is present  in  the
       kernel  file  data  cache  at the time when it is actually requested by
       clients.

       The size of the disk read operations  performed  by  vfs_cacheprime  is
       determined by the cacheprime:rsize option. All disk read operations are
       aligned on boundaries that are a multiple of this size. Each  range  of
       the file data is primed at most once during the time the client has the
       file open.

       This module is stackable.

OPTIONS
       cacheprime:rsize = BYTES
          The number of bytes with which to prime the kernel data cache.

          The following suffixes may be applied to BYTES:

             o  K - BYTES is a number of kilobytes

             o  M - BYTES is a number of megabytes

             o  G - BYTES is a number of gigabytes

EXAMPLES
       For a hypothetical disk array, it is necessary to ensure that all  read
       operations  are  of  size  1 megabyte (1048576 bytes), and aligned on 1
       megabyte boundaries:


            [hypothetical]
            vfs objects = cacheprime
            cacheprime:rsize = 1M


CAVEATS
       cacheprime is not a a substitute for a general-purpose readahead mecha-
       nism.  It  is intended for use only in very specific environments where
       disk operations must be aligned and sized to known values (as  much  as
       that is possible).

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0.25 of the Samba suite.

AUTHOR
       The  original  Samba  software  and  related  utilities were created by
       Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by the Samba Team  as  an  Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.




