VFS_RECYCLE(8)                                                  VFS_RECYCLE(8)



NAME
       vfs_recycle - Samba VFS recycle bin

SYNOPSIS
       vfs objects = recycle

DESCRIPTION
       This VFS module is part of the samba(7) suite.

       The  vfs_recycle  intercepts  file  deletion  requests  and  moves  the
       affected files to a temporary  repository  rather  than  deleting  them
       immediately.  This  gives the same effect as the Recycle Bin on Windows
       computers.

       The Recycle Bin will not appear in Windows Explorer views of  the  net-
       work  file system (share) nor on any mapped drive. Instead, a directory
       called .recycle will be automatically created when the  first  file  is
       deleted and recycle:repository is not configured. If recycle:repository
       is configured, the name of  the  created  directory  depends  on  recy-
       cle:repository.  Users  can  recover files from the recycle bin. If the
       recycle:keeptree option has been specified, deleted files will be found
       in a path identical with that from which the file was deleted.

       This module is stackable.

OPTIONS
       recycle:repository = PATH
          Path of the directory where deleted files should be moved.

          If this option is not set, the default path .recycle is used.

       recycle:directory_mode = MODE
          Set  MODE to the octal mode the recycle repository should be created
          with. The recycle repository will be  created  when  first  file  is
          deleted.  If  recycle:subdir_mode  is  not set, MODE also applies to
          subdirectories.

          If this option is not set, the default mode 0700 is used.

       recycle:subdir_mode = MODE
          Set MODE to the octal mode with which sub directories of the recycle
          repository should be created.

          If  this  option is not set, subdirectories will be created with the
          mode from recycle:directory_mode.

       recycle:keeptree = BOOL
          Specifies whether the directory structure  should  be  preserved  or
          whether  the  files  in  a directory that is being deleted should be
          kept separately in the repository.

       recycle:versions = BOOL
          If this option is True, two  files  with  the  same  name  that  are
          deleted  will both be kept in the repository. Newer deleted versions
          of a file will be called "Copy #x of filename".

       recycle:touch = BOOL
          Specifies whether a file's access date should be  updated  when  the
          file is moved to the repository.

       recycle:touch_mtime = BOOL
          Specifies whether a file's last modified date should be updated when
          the file is moved to the repository.

       recycle:minsize = BYTES
          Files that are smaller than the number of bytes  specified  by  this
          parameter will not be put into the repository.

       recycle:maxsize = BYTES
          Files  that  are  larger  than the number of bytes specified by this
          parameter will not be put into the repository.

       recycle:exclude = LIST
          List of files that should  not  be  put  into  the  repository  when
          deleted,  but  deleted  in the normal way. Wildcards such as * and ?
          are supported.

       recycle:exclude_dir = LIST
          List of directories whose files should not be put into  the  reposi-
          tory  when deleted, but deleted in the normal way. Wildcards such as
          * and ? are supported.

       recycle:noversions = LIST
          Specifies a list of paths (wildcards such as * and ? are  supported)
          for  which  no  versioning  should  be  used. Only useful when recy-
          cle:versions is enabled.

EXAMPLES
       Log operations on all shares using the LOCAL1 facility and NOTICE  pri-
       ority:


               [global]
            vfs objects = recycle
            recycle:facility = LOCAL1
            recycle:priority = NOTICE


VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 3.0.25 of the Samba suite.

AUTHOR
       The  original  Samba  software  and  related  utilities were created by
       Andrew Tridgell. Samba is now developed by the Samba Team  as  an  Open
       Source project similar to the way the Linux kernel is developed.




