img-intro(n)                                                      img-intro(n)



NAME
       img-intro - Introduction to Img

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require Img  ?1.3?


DESCRIPTION
       Img  is a Tk extension, adding support for many other Image formats, as
       listed below. The individual formats are described in  more  detail  on
       their own pages.

       bmp    Windows bitmap format.  See img-bmp.

       gif    The  venerable  graphics  interchange format (with transparency,
              but without LZW. The latter due to patent issues).  See img-gif.

       ico    Windows icon files.  See img-ico.

       jpeg   The  format for lossy compressed still pictures specified by the
              Joint Picture Experts Group.  See img-jpeg.

       pcx    Paintbrush image format.  See img-pcx.

       pixmap While the other formats are handlers for the Tk photo image type
              this is a new image type for Tk.  See img-pixmap.

       png    Portable Network Graphics, successor to GIF.  See img-png.

       ppm    Portable Pixmaps.  See img-ppm.

       ps     Postscript  and  PDF  (Portable  document  format).  Requires an
              external application, ghostview, for its operation.  See img-ps.

       sgi    Native SGI format.  See img-sgi.

       sun    Sun raster images.  See img-sun.

       tga    Targa files.  See img-tga.

       tiff   Tagged Interchange File Format.  See img-tiff.

       window ???  See img-window.

       xbm    X Bitmaps.  See img-xbm.

       xpm    X  Pixmaps.   See  img-xpm.  This version only works with Tcl/Tk
              8.2 or higher. If you are using Tk 8.1  or  lower  please  stick
              with  Img 1.2.4 (which is still available). And if you are using
              Tk4.2 or lower, please stick with Img 1.1.4 (which is also still
              available).

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp, img-gif, img-ico, img-jpeg, img-pcx, img-pixmap, img-png, img-
       ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-window,  img-xbm,
       img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       bmp, gif, ico, image handling, jpeg, pcx, pdf, pixmap, png, postscript,
       ppm, ps, sgi, sun, tga, tiff, tk, window, xbm, xpm

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




