img-ps(n)                                                            img-ps(n)



NAME
       img-ps - Img, Adobe PostScript Format (ps)

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require img::ps  ?1.3?

       image create photo ?name? ?options?


DESCRIPTION
       The package img::ps is a sub-package of Img. It can be loaded as a part
       of the complete Img support, via package require Img, or  on  its  own,
       via package require img::ps.

       Like  all packages of Img it does not provide new commands, but extends
       the existing Tk command image so  that  it  supports  files  containing
       raster  images  in  the Adobe PostScript Format (ps). More specifically
       img::ps extends Tk's photo image type.

       The name of the new format handler is ps.  This  handler  provides  new
       additional  configuration  options.  See section PostScript OPTIONS for
       more detailed explanations.

       Note that this package provides a pdf handler too, i.e. a  handler  for
       the  Adobe  Portable  Document  Format.  That  handler accepts the same
       options as the ps handler.

       The package delegates the actual conversion of data in  PostScript  and
       PDF  format  into  a  raster  image  to the ghostscript application. It
       therefore depends upon the presence of said  application  and  is  non-
       functional is ghostscript is not present.

       All of the above means that in a call like

       image create photo ?name? ?options?

       [1]    Image  data  in  ps  and PDF format (options -data and -file) is
              detected automatically.

       [2]    The format names ps and pdf are recognized by the  option  -for-
              mat.   In  addition  the value for the option is treated as list
              and may contain any of the special  options  listed  in  section
              PostScript OPTIONS.

PostScript OPTIONS
       The handler provides two options, both influencing the reading of Post-
       Script or PDF images. The handler is not able to write images in  Post-
       Script or PDF.

       -index n
              This  option  is for reading from PostScript/PDF data containing
              more than one page. When specified it will read the n'th page in
              the  data.  The  first  page  is  at index 0 and will be read by
              default, i.e. when the option is not specified.

              Note: This option is not yet implemented.

       -zoom X Y
              Multiply image size by the given scale factors. If Y is missing,
              the  default  is  the  same  as  X. X and Y are allowed to be in
              floating point format, but they are rounded to the nearest prac-
              tically  possible value. For postscript this means the zoom fac-
              tors should be multiples of 1/72.

REQUIREMENTS
       The code provided by Img does not perform the interpretation  and  ras-
       terizing  of  the input by itself but delegates this to the gs applica-
       tion. This is the GhostScript implementation of PostScript (and PDF).

       If gs is not installed this format handler cannot be used.

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp, img-gif, img-ico, img-intro,  img-jpeg,  img-pcx,  img-pixmap,
       img-png, img-ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-win-
       dow, img-xbm, img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       ghostscript, gs, image handling, pdf, postscript, ps, tk

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




