img-tiff(n)                                                        img-tiff(n)



NAME
       img-tiff - Img, Tagged Image File Format (tiff)

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require img::tiff  ?1.3?

       image create photo ?name? ?options?


DESCRIPTION
       The  package  img::tiff  is a sub-package of Img. It can be loaded as a
       part of the complete Img support, via package require Img,  or  on  its
       own, via package require img::tiff.

       Like  all packages of Img it does not provide new commands, but extends
       the existing Tk command image so  that  it  supports  files  containing
       raster images in the Tagged Image File Format (tiff). More specifically
       img::tiff extends Tk's photo image type.

       The name of the new format handler is tiff.  This handler provides  new
       additional  configuration  options.  See  section TIFF OPTIONS for more
       detailed explanations.

       All of the above means that in a call like

       image create photo ?name? ?options?

       [1]    Image data in tiff format (options -data and -file) is  detected
              automatically.

       [2]    The  format  name  tiff is recognized by the option -format.  In
              addition the value for the option is treated  as  list  and  may
              contain  any  of  the  special  options  listed  in section TIFF
              OPTIONS.

TIFF OPTIONS
       The handler provides two options to influence the  writing  of  a  TIFF
       image. There are no options to influence the reader.

       -compression type
              This  option specifies the type of compression to use when writ-
              ing TIFF data. It has to be one  of  none,  jpeg,  packbits,  or
              deflate. The default is none.

       -byteorder type
              This  option  specifies  the  byteorder to use when writing TIFF
              data. It has to be  one  of  bigendian,  littleendian,  network,
              smallendian,  or  the  empty  string.  The  default is the empty
              string.

              The values bigendian and network are aliases of each  other,  as
              are littleendian and smallendian.

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp,  img-gif,  img-ico,  img-intro, img-jpeg, img-pcx, img-pixmap,
       img-png, img-ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-win-
       dow, img-xbm, img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       image handling, tiff, tk

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




