img-png(n)                                                          img-png(n)



NAME
       img-png - Img, Portable Network Graphics format (png)

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require img::png  ?1.3?

       image create photo ?name? ?options?


DESCRIPTION
       The  package  img::png  is  a sub-package of Img. It can be loaded as a
       part of the complete Img support, via package require Img,  or  on  its
       own, via package require img::png.

       Like  all packages of Img it does not provide new commands, but extends
       the existing Tk command image so  that  it  supports  files  containing
       raster  images  in  the  Portable  Network  Graphics format (png). More
       specifically img::png extends Tk's photo image type.

       The name of the new format handler is png.  This handler  provides  new
       additional  configuration  options.  See  section  PNG OPTIONS for more
       detailed explanations.

       All of the above means that in a call like

       image create photo ?name? ?options?

       [1]    Image data in png format (options -data and -file)  is  detected
              automatically.

       [2]    The  format  name  png  is recognized by the option -format.  In
              addition the value for the option is treated  as  list  and  may
              contain  any  of  the  special  options  listed  in  section PNG
              OPTIONS.

PNG OPTIONS
       The handler provides no true options at all, but accepts pairs of  keys
       and  values  when  writing  a  PNG file. Each pair will be written as a
       named text chunk where the key provides the name of the chunk  and  the
       value its contents.  For example

           png Author <name> Title <title> Description ...


TRANSPARENCY
       If you want to write images to disk which contain transparency informa-
       tion (e.g. PNG with alpha channel) you need at least Tk 8.3.

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp, img-gif, img-ico, img-intro,  img-jpeg,  img-pcx,  img-pixmap,
       img-png, img-ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-win-
       dow, img-xbm, img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       image handling, png, tk

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




