img-pixmap(n)                                                    img-pixmap(n)



NAME
       img-pixmap - Img, Pixmap Image type (pixmap)

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require img::pixmap  ?1.3?

       image create pixmap ?name? ?options?

       imageName option ?arg arg ...?

       imageName cget option

       imageName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  package img::pixmap is a sub-package of Img. It can be loaded as a
       part of the complete Img support, via package require Img,  or  on  its
       own, via package require img::pixmap.

       Like  all packages of Img it does not provide new commands, but extends
       the existing Tk command image.

       In contrast to all other sub packages this  packages  does  not  extend
       Tk's photo image type, but rather provides a completely new image type,
       on the same level as photo and bitmap.

CREATING PIXMAPS
       Like all images, pixmaps are created using the image create command.

       image create pixmap ?name? ?options?
              Pixmaps support the following options:

              -data string
                     Specifies the contents of the source pixmap as a  string.
                     The  string  must  adhere  to X11 pixmap format (e.g., as
                     generated by the pixmap program). If both the  -data  and
                     -file  options  are  specified,  the  -data  option takes
                     precedence.

              -file name
                     name gives the name of a file whose contents  define  the
                     source  pixmap. The file must adhere to X11 pixmap format
                     (e.g., as generated by the pixmap program).

IMAGE COMMAND
       When a pixmap image is created, Tk also creates a new comA  mand  whose
       name is the same as the image.  This command may be used to invoke var-
       ious operations on the image.  It has the following general form:

       imageName option ?arg arg ...?
              Option and the args determine the exact behavior of the command.
              The following commands are possible for pixmap images:

       imageName cget option
              Returns  the  current value of the configuration option given by
              option. Option may have any of the values accepted by the  image
              create pixmap command.

       imageName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query  or  modify the configuration options for the image. If no
              option is specified, returns a list describing all of the avail-
              able options for imageName (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information
              on the format of this list). If  option  is  specified  with  no
              value,  then the command returns a list describing the one named
              option (this list will be identiA cal to the corresponding  sub-
              list  of  the value returned if no option is specified).  If one
              or more option-value pairs are specified, then the command modi-
              fies  the  given  option(s)  to have the given value(s); in this
              case the command returns an empty string. Option may have any of
              the values accepted by the image create pixmap command.

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp,  img-gif,  img-ico,  img-intro, img-jpeg, img-pcx, img-pixmap,
       img-png, img-ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-win-
       dow, img-xbm, img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       image handling, pixmap, tk

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




