img-gif(n)                                                          img-gif(n)



NAME
       img-gif - Img, Graphics Interchange Format (gif)

SYNOPSIS
       package require Tk

       package require img::gif  ?1.3?

       image create photo ?name? ?options?


DESCRIPTION
       The  package  img::gif  is  a sub-package of Img. It can be loaded as a
       part of the complete Img support, via package require Img,  or  on  its
       own, via package require img::gif.

       Like  all packages of Img it does not provide new commands, but extends
       the existing Tk command image so  that  it  supports  files  containing
       raster  images  in the Graphics Interchange Format (gif). More specifi-
       cally img::gif extends Tk's photo image type.

       The name of the new format handler is gif.  This handler  provides  new
       additional  configuration  options.  See  section  GIF OPTIONS for more
       detailed explanations.

       All of the above means that in a call like

       image create photo ?name? ?options?

       [1]    Image data in gif format (options -data and -file)  is  detected
              automatically.

       [2]    The  format  name  gif  is recognized by the option -format.  In
              addition the value for the option is treated  as  list  and  may
              contain  any  of  the  special  options  listed  in  section GIF
              OPTIONS.

GIF OPTIONS
       The handler provides two options, one for reading from a GIF image, the
       other influencing the writing of such.

       -index n
              This  option  is for reading from GIF files containing more than
              one image (animated GIF's, GIF movies. When  specified  it  will
              read  the  n'th image in the data. The first image is at index 0
              and will be read by default, i.e. when the option is not  speci-
              fied.

       -interlaced bool
              If  the  value  of  this option is set to true the image will be
              written using the interlaced sub-format of GIF. The  default  is
              to  write  non-interlaced  files. This option is not implemented
              yet.

IMAGE COMPRESSION
       Instead of LZW the run-length encoding  of  Hutchison  Avenue  Software
       Corporation  is  used,  also known as miGIF compression. The miGIF com-
       pression routines do not, strictly speaking, generate files  conforming
       to  the  GIF  spec, since the image data is not LZW-compressed (this is
       the point: in order to avoid transgression of the Unisys patent on  the
       LZW  algorithm.) However, miGIF generates data streams that any reason-
       ably sane LZW decompresser will decompress to what we want.

TRANSPARENCY
       If you want to write images to disk which contain transparency informa-
       tion (e.g. GIF89) you need at least Tk 8.3.

SEE ALSO
       img-bmp,  img-gif,  img-ico,  img-intro, img-jpeg, img-pcx, img-pixmap,
       img-png, img-ppm, img-ps, img-sgi, img-sun, img-tga, img-tiff, img-win-
       dow, img-xbm, img-xpm

KEYWORDS
       gif, image handling, tk

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) 1995-2003 Jan Nijtmans <nijtmans@users.sourceforge.com>




