Clamd client(1)                 Clam AntiVirus                 Clamd client(1)



NAME
       clamdscan - scan files and directories for viruses using Clam AntiVirus
       Daemon

SYNOPSIS
       clamdscan [options] [file/directory]

DESCRIPTION
       clamdscan is a clamd client which may be used as  a  clamscan  replace-
       ment.  It  accepts  all the options implemented in clamscan but most of
       them will be ignored because its  scanning  abilities  only  depend  on
       clamd.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Display help information and exit.

       -V, --version
              Print version number and exit.

       -v, --verbose
              Be verbose.

       --quiet
              Be quiet - only output error messages.

       --stdout
              Write all messages (except for libclamav output) to the standard
              output (stdout).

       --config-file=FILE
              Read clamd settings from FILE.

       -l FILE, --log=FILE
              Save the scan report to FILE.

       -f FILE, --file-list=FILE
              Scan files listed line by line in FILE.

       -m, --multiscan
              In the multiscan mode clamd will attempt to scan  the  directory
              contents  in  parallel  using  available threads. This option is
              especially useful on multiprocessor and multi-core  systems.  If
              you  pass  more  than one file or directory in the command line,
              they are put in a queue and sent  to  clamd  individually.  This
              means,  that single files are always scanned by a single thread.
              Similarly, clamdscan will wait for clamd to finish  a  directory
              scan  (performed  in  multiscan  mode) before sending request to
              scan  another  directory.  This  option  can  be  combined  with
              --fdpass (see below).

       --remove
              Remove infected files. Be careful.

       --move=DIRECTORY
              Move infected files into DIRECTORY.

       --no-summary
              Do not display summary at the end of scanning.

       --reload
              Request clamd to reload virus database.

       --fdpass
              Pass the file descriptor permissions to clamd. This is useful if
              clamd is running as a  different  user  as  it  is  faster  than
              streaming  the  file  to  clamd.  Only available if connected to
              clamd via local(unix) socket.

       --stream
              Forces file streaming to clamd. This is generally not needed  as
              clamdscan  detects  automatically if streaming is required. This
              option only exists for debugging and testing  purposes,  in  all
              other cases --fdpass is preferred.

EXAMPLES
       (0) To scan a one file:

              clamdscan file

       (1) To scan a current working directory:

              clamdscan

       (2) To scan all files in /home:

              clamdscan /home

       (3) To scan a file when clamd is running as a different user:

              clamdscan --fdpass ~/downloads

       (4) To scan from standard input:

              clamdscan - <file_to_scan cat file_to_scan | clamdscan -

RETURN CODES
       0 : No virus found.

       1 : Virus(es) found.

       2 : An error occured.

CREDITS
       Please check the full documentation for credits.

AUTHOR
       Tomasz Kojm <tkojm@clamav.net>

SEE ALSO
       clamd(8), clamd.conf(5), clamscan(1)



