FSLSFONTS(1)                                                      FSLSFONTS(1)



NAME
       fslsfonts - list fonts served by X font server

SYNOPSIS
       fslsfonts [-options ...] [-fn pattern]

DESCRIPTION
       Fslsfonts  lists  the fonts that match the given pattern.  The wildcard
       character "*" may be used to match any sequence of characters  (includ-
       ing  none),  and  "?"  to match any single character.  If no pattern is
       given, "*" is assumed.

       The "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to prevent  them  from  being
       expanded by the shell.

OPTIONS
       -server host:port
               This option specifies the X font server to contact.


       -l      Lists  some  attributes  of the font on one line in addition to
               its name.

       -ll     Lists font properties in addition to -l output.

       -lll    Supported for compatibility with xlsfonts, but  output  is  the
               same as for -ll.

       -m      This  option indicates that long listings should also print the
               minimum and maximum bounds of each font.

       -C      This option indicates that listings should  use  multiple  col-
               umns.  This is the same as -n 0.

       -1      This option indicates that listings should use a single column.
               This is the same as -n 1.

       -w width
               This option specifies the width in characters  that  should  be
               used in figuring out how many columns to print.  The default is
               79.

       -n columns
               This option specifies the number of columns to use in  display-
               ing the output.  The default is 0, which will attempt to fit as
               many columns of font names into the number of character  speci-
               fied by -w width.

       -u      This  option indicates that the output should be left unsorted.


SEE ALSO
       xfs(1), showfont(1), xlsfonts(1)

ENVIRONMENT
       FONTSERVER
               to get the default host and port to use.

BUGS
       Doing ``fslsfonts -l'' can tie up your server for  a  very  long  time.
       This  is really a bug with single-threaded non-preemptable servers, not
       with this program.

AUTHOR
       Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc



