mcxquery(1)               BSD General Commands Manual              mcxquery(1)

NAME
     mcxquery -- Managed Client (MCX) compositor query tool

SYNOPSIS
     mcxquery [options] [-user recordName] [-group recordName]
              [-computer spec]

              options:

              -o path                    output path

              -format space | tab | xml  output format

DESCRIPTION
     mcxquery is a utility to determine the effective managed preferences for
     a user logging in to a workgroup from a specific computer.

     -user      Specify the short name of the user record to read managed
                preferences from. If this parameter is omitted, or a value of
                "=" specified, the short name of the currently logged in con-
                sole user will be used.

     -group     Specify the short name of the group record to read managed
                preferences from. A value of "=" may be specified to mean the
                name of the workgroup (if any) chosen for the current login
                session.

     -computer  Specify the computer record to read managed preferences from.
                The computer can be specified using either an Ethernet MAC
                address (e.g. "11:22:33:44:55:66") or the short name of the
                computer record itself (e.g. "lab1_12"). If this parameter is
                omitted, or a value of "=" specified, the record for the cur-
                rent computer will be used.

EXAMPLES
     mcxquery -user jane -group science -computer lab1_12
              Displays the managed preferences that would be in effect if user
              "jane" logged in using workgroup "science" from the computer
              specified in the "lab1_12" computer record.

     mcxquery -user jane -group science -computer 11:22:33:44:55:66
              Displays the managed preferences that would be in effect if user
              "jane" logged in using workgroup "science" from a computer with
              an Ethernet MAC address of 11:22:33:44:55:66.

     mcxquery -user = -group = -computer guest
              Displays the managed preferences that would be in effect if the
              current user logged in using the current workgroup into a com-
              puter not specified by any computer record (i.e. a "guest" com-
              puter).

     mcxquery -user jane -group math
              Displays the managed preferences that would be in effect if the
              user "jane" logged into the "math" workgroup on the current com-
              puter.

     mcxquery -o /tmp/report.txt -format xml -user jane
              Writes the managed preferences that would be in effect if user
              "jane" logged into the current computer without a workgroup.
              The report is written in XML format to /tmp/report.txt.

