SHOWFONT(1)                                                        SHOWFONT(1)



NAME
       showfont - font dumper for X font server

SYNOPSIS
       showfont [ -options ... ] -fn pattern

DESCRIPTION
       Showfont  displays  data  about  a font that matches the given pattern.
       The information shown includes font information, font properties, char-
       acter metrics, and character bitmaps.

       The wildcard character "*" can be used to match any sequence of charac-
       ters (including none) in the font name, and "?" can be  used  to  match
       any  single  character.   The  "*" and "?" characters must be quoted to
       prevent them from being expanded by the shell.  If no pattern is given,
       "*" is assumed.

OPTIONS
       -server host:port
               The X font server to contact.

       -fn name
               The font to display.

       -lsb    The  bit  order  of  the  font  should be requested as LSBFirst
               (least significant bit first).

       -msb    The bit order of the font should be requested as MSBFirst (most
               significant bit first).

       -LSB    The  byte  order  of  the  font should be requested as LSBFirst
               (least significant byte first).

       -MSB    The byte order of the font  should  be  requested  as  MSBFirst
               (most significant byte first).

       -ext[ents_only]
               Only  the  character  extents  should be displayed, but not the
               bitmaps.

       -start char
               The start of the range of the characters to display (char is  a
               number).

       -end char
               The  end  of  the range of the characters to display (char is a
               number).

       -unit n The scanline unit of the font (8, 16, 32, or 64).

       -pad n  The scanpad unit of the font (8, 16, 32, or 64).

       -b[itmap_pad] n
               The bitmap padding unit of the font (0, 1, or  2,  where  0  is
               ImageRectMin, 1 is ImageRectMaxWidth and 2 is ImageRectMax).

       -noprops
               Do not show the font properties.

SEE ALSO
       xfs(1), fslsfonts(1), xlsfonts(1)

ENVIRONMENT
       FONTSERVER
               the default X font server to contact.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc.
       See X(1) for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHOR
       Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc.



