SYSLOG(1)                 BSD General Commands Manual                SYSLOG(1)

NAME
     syslog -- Apple System Log utility

SYNOPSIS
     syslog -help

     syslog -s [-r host] [-l level] message...

     syslog -s [-r host] -k key val [key val] ...

     syslog -C

     syslog [-db [file ...]] [-w [n]] [-F format] [-T format] expression

     syslog [-db [file ...]] -x expression

     syslog [-db [file ...]] -p expression

     syslog -c process [filter]

DESCRIPTION
     syslog is a command-line utility for a variety of tasks relating to the
     Apple System Log facility.  It provides mechanisms for sending and view-
     ing log messages, pruning the contents of the log message databases, and
     for controlling the flow of log messages from client processes.

     When invoked with the -help option, syslog prints a usage message.

   SENDING MESSAGES
     The -s option is used send log messages to the syslogd(8) log message
     daemon, either locally or to a remote server if the -r host option in
     used.

     There are two main forms of the command.  If the -k option is used, then
     it must be followed by a list of keys and values.  A structured message
     will be sent to the server with the keys and values given as arguments.
     If a key or a value has embedded white space, it must be enclosed in
     quotes.

     If the -k option is not specified, then the rest of the command line is
     treated as the message text.  The text may be preceded by -l level to set
     the log level (priority) of the message.  Levels may be an integer value
     corresponding the the log levels specified in syslog(3) or asl(3), or
     they may be a string.  String values are case insensitive, and should be
     one of:

     Emergency     (level 0)
     Alert         (level 1)
     Critical      (level 2)
     Error         (level 3)
     Warning       (level 4)
     Notice        (level 5)
     Info          (level 6)
     Debug         (level 7)

     The string ``Panic'' is an alias for ``Emergency''.

     If the -l option is omitted, the log level defaults to 7 (Debug).

     syslog only requires one or two leading characters for a level specifica-
     tion.  A single character suffices in most cases.  Use ``P'' or ``Em''
     for Panic / Emergency, and ``Er'' or ``X'' for Error).

   READING MESSAGES
     The syslogd daemon filters and saves log messages to different output
     streams.  One module saves messages to files specified in the
     syslog.conf(5) file.  Those log files may be examined with any file
     printing or editing utility, e.g.

           cat /var/log/system.log

     Another module saves messages in an active database, and may also be con-
     figured to keep archive databases.

     If invoked with no arguments, syslog sends a query to syslogd to fetch
     all messages from the active database.  The messages are then printed to
     standard output, subject to formatting options and character encoding as
     described below.

     If invoked with the -C option, syslog fetches and prints console mes-
     sages.  The -C option is actually an alias for the expression:

           -k Facility com.apple.console

     See the EXPRESSIONS section below for more details.

     If the system is running in single-user mode, syslog will open the ASL
     active database file (/var/log/asl.db) directly, rather than queying
     syslogd for messages.  The database file is opened in read-only mode, and
     read access permissions are required.  Specifying the -db option with no
     argument also forces raw database access.

     Archive log databases may be read by providing one or more database names
     as arguments to the -db option.  Each database is read in sequence.  As a
     special case, the name ``-'' may be used in place of a database file
     name.  In this case, syslog will connect to syslogd and query for the
     contents of the active database.

     The -w option causes syslog to wait for new messages.  By default, syslog
     prints the last 10 messages, then waits for new messages to be added to
     the database.  A number following the -w option specifies the number of
     messages to print and overrides the default value of 10.  For example:

           syslog -w 20

     This usage is similar to watching a log file using, e.g.

           tail -f /var/log/system.log

     The -w option can only be used for a single database, and when printing
     messages to standard output.

     If the -x database option is specified, messages are copied to the named
     database file rather than being printed.  The database file will be cre-
     ated if it does not exist.

     When called without the -x option, messages are printed to standard out-
     put.  Messages are printed in a format similar to that used in the sys-
     tem.log file, except that the message priority level is printed between
     angle-brackets.

     The output format may by changed by specifying the -F format option.
     Non-printable and control characters are encoded in the output, as
     described below.  The value of format may be one of the following:

     bsd   Format used by the syslogd daemon for system log files, e.g.
           /var/log/system.log.

     std   Standard (default) format.  Similar to ``bsd'', but includes the
           message priority level.

     raw   Prints the complete message structure.  Each key/value pair is
           enclosed in square brackets.  Embedded closing brackets and white
           space are escaped.  Time stamps are printed as seconds since the
           epoch by default, but may also be printed in local time or UTC if
           the -T option is specified (see below).

     xml   The list of messages is printed as an XML property list.  Each mes-
           sage is represented as a dictionary in a array.  Dictionary keys
           represent message keys.  Dictionary values are strings.

     The value of the format argument may also be a custom print format
     string.  A custom format should in most cases be enclosed in single
     quotes to prevent the shell from substituting special characters and
     breaking at white space.

     Custom format strings may include variables of the form ``$Name'' (or
     ``$(Name)'' if the variable is not delimited by whitespace) which will be
     expanded to the associated with the named key.  For example, the command:

           syslog -F '$Time $Host $(Sender)[$(PID)]: $Message'

     produces output similar to the ``bsd'' format.

     Timestamps may be printed in three formats.  Times are generally con-
     verted to local time, except when the -F sec option is used, in which
     case times are printed as the number of seconds since the epoch.  The -T
     format option may be used to explicity control the format used for time-
     stamps.  The value of format may be one of the following:

     sec    Times are printed as the number of seconds since the epoch.

     local  Times are converted to the local time zone, and printed with the
            format
                  MMM DD HH:MM:SS

     utc    Times are converted to UTC, and printed with the format
                  YYYY.MM.DD HH:MM:SS UTC

     The -u option is a short form for -T utc.

     Control characters and non-printable characters are encoded in the output
     stream.  In some cases this may make messages slightly less natural in
     appearance.  However, the encoding is designed to preserve all the infor-
     mation in the log message, and to prevent malicious users from spoofing
     or obsucring information in log messages.

     Output in the ``std'', ``bsd'', and ``raw'' formats is encoded as it is
     by the vis utility with the -c option.  Newlines and tabs are also
     encoded as "\n" and "\t" respectively.  In ``raw'' format, space chanac-
     ters embedded in log message keys are encoded as "\s" and embedded brack-
     ets are escaped to print as "\[" and "\]".

     XML format output requires that keys are valid UTF8 strings.  Keys which
     are not valid UTF8 are ignored, and the associated value is not printed.

     Values that contain legal UTF8 are printed as strings.  Ampersand, less
     than, greater than, quotation mark, and apostrophe characters are encoded
     according to XML conventions.  Embedded control characters are encoded as
     ``&#xNN;'' where NN is the character's hexidecimal value.

     Values that do not contain legal UTF8 are encoded in base-64 and printed
     as data objects.

     If no further command line options are specified, syslog displays all
     messages, or copies all messages to a database file.  However, an expres-
     sion may be specified using the -k and -o options.

   EXPRESSIONS
     Expressions specify matching criteria.  They may be used to search for
     messages of interest.  Expressions are also required when pruning the
     system log file with the -p option.

     A simple expression is a list of one or more key/value pairs.  A match is
     made when a message has the given value for the specified key.  For exam-
     ple, to find all messages sent by the portmap process:

           syslog -k Sender portmap

     Note that the -C option is treated as an alias for the expression:

           -k Facility com.apple.console

     This provides a quick way to search for console messages.

     The -k option may be followed by one, two, or three arguments.  A single
     argument causes a match to occur if a message has the specified key,
     regardless of value.  If a pair of arguments is specified, a match occurs
     when a message has exactly the specified value for a given key.  If three
     arguments are given, they are of the form -k key operation value.  syslog
     supports the following matching operators:

     eq   equal
     ne   not equal
     gt   greater than
     ge   greater than or equal to
     lt   less than
     le   less than or equal to

     Additionally, the operator may be preceded by one or more of the follow-
     ing modifiers:

     C    case-fold
     R    regular expression (see regex(3))
     S    substring
     A    prefix
     Z    suffix
     N    numeric comparison

     An simple expression matches a message if all of the key-value operations
     match.  Logically, the result is an AND of all of key-value operations.
     The -o option separates simple expressions and provides an OR operation.
     If two or more simple expressions are given, separated by -o options,
     then a match occurs is a message matches any of the simple expressions.
     For example, to find all messages which have either a ``Sender'' value of
     ``portmap'' or that have a numeric priority level of 4 or less:

           syslog -k Sender portmap -o -k Level Nle 4

     A special convention exists for matching time stamps.  An unsigned inte-
     ger value is regarded as the given number of seconds since 0 hours, 0
     minutes, 0 seconds, January 1, 1970, Coordinated Universal Time.  An neg-
     ative integer value is regarded as the given number of seconds before the
     current time.  For example, to find all messages of priority level 3
     (error) or less which were logged in the last 30 seconds:

           syslog -k Level Nle 3 -k Time ge -30

     a relative time value may be optionally followed by one of the characters
     ``s'', ``m'', ``h'', ``d'', or ``w'' to specify seconds, minutes, hours,
     days, or weeks respectively.  Upper case may be used equivalently.  A
     week is taken to be 7 complete days (i.e. 604800 seconds).

   PRUNING
     The Apple System Log facility saves received messages, subject to filter-
     ing criteria described in the FILTERING CONTROLS section below.  The
     syslogd daemon deletes messages after given time-to-live values to pre-
     vent the database from growing too large.  When messages expire, they are
     either removed entirely, or copied to an archive database.  See the
     syslogd(8) manual for more details on archiving messages.

     Messages may be removed from either the active database or from an ar-
     chive database by using the -p option of syslog.  The -p option must be
     followed by an expression (see above).  Messages that match the expres-
     sion are deleted.

     If the -db option is not specified syslog sends a request to syslogd to
     perform the requested pruning operation.  If -db is given without a data-
     base file name, syslog prunes the active database file.  This may only be
     done if the syslogd server is not running.  If one or more database file
     names are given, those databases are pruned subject to the specified
     expression.  Read and write access to the database files are required.

   FILTERING CONTROLS
     Clients of the Apple System Log facility using either the asl(3) or
     syslog(3) interfaces may specify a log filter mask.  The mask specifies
     which messages should be sent to the syslogd daemon by specifying a
     yes/no setting for each priority level.  Many clients set a filter mask
     to avoid sending relatively unimportant messages.  Debug or Info priority
     level messages are generally only useful for debugging operations.  By
     setting a filter mask, a process can improve performance by avoiding
     spending time sending messages that are in most cases unnecessary.

     The -c option may be used to control filtering.  In addition to the
     internal filter value that processes may set as described above, the sys-
     tem maintains a global ``master'' filter.  This filter is normally
     ``off'', meaning that it has no effect.  If a value is set for the master
     filter, it overrides the local filter for all processes.  Root user
     access is required to set the master filter value.

     The current setting of the master filter mask may be inspected using:

           syslog -c 0

     The value of the master filter mask my be set by providing a second argu-
     ment following -c 0.  The value may a set of characters from the set
     ``pacewnid''.  These correspond to the priority levels Emergency (Panic),
     Alert, Critical, Error, Warning, Notice, Info, and Debug.  The character
     ``x'' may be used for Error, as it is used for sending messages.  The
     master filter may be unset with:

           syslog -c 0 off

     Since it is common to use the filter as a ``cutoff'' mechanism, for exam-
     ple to cut off messages with Debug and Info priority, a single character
     from the list above may be specified, preceded by a minus sign.  In this
     case, syslog uses a filter mask starting at level 0 (Emergency) ``up to''
     the given level.  For example, to set the master filter level to cause
     all processes to log messages from Emergency up to Debug:

           syslog -c 0 -d

     While the master filter level may be set to control the messages produced
     by all processes, another filter mask may be specified for an individual
     process.  If a per-process filter mask is set, it overrides both the
     local filter mask and the master filter mask.  The current setting for a
     per-process filter mask may be inspected using -c process, where process
     is either a PID or the name of a process.  If a name is used, it must
     uniquely identify a process.  To set a per-process filter mask, an second
     argument may be supplied following -c process as described above for the
     master filter mask.  Root access is required to set the per-process fil-
     ter mask for system (UID 0) processes.

     The filtering described above takes place in the client library to deter-
     mine which messages are sent to the syslogd daemon.  The daemon also con-
     tains a filter which determines which messages are saved in the data
     store.  Note that this additionally determines which messages are seen
     when reading messages using the syslog utility.

     The default data store filter mask saves messages with priority levels
     from Emergency to Notice (level 0 to 5).  The level may be inspected
     using:

           syslog -c syslogd

     To set the data store filter mask, an second argument may be supplied
     following -c syslog as described above.  For example, to save messages
     with priority level Error or less in the data store:

           syslog -c syslog -e

SEE ALSO
     syslogd(8), logger(1), asl(3), syslog(3),

HISTORY
     The syslog utility appeared in Mac OS X 10.4.

