XAR(1)                           User Commands                          XAR(1)



NAME
       xar - eXtensible ARchiver

SYNOPSIS
       xar -[ctx][v] ...

DESCRIPTION
       The  XAR  project  aims to provide an easily extensible archive format.
       Important design decisions include an easily extensible  XML  table  of
       contents  (TOC) for random access to archived files, storing the TOC at
       the beginning of  the  archive  to  allow  for  efficient  handling  of
       streamed  archives,  the  ability  to handle files of arbitrarily large
       sizes, the ability to choose independent encodings for individual files
       in  the archive, the ability to store checksums for individual files in
       both compressed and uncompressed form, and the ability to query the ta-
       ble of content's rich meta-data.

FUNCTIONS
       One of the following options must be used:

       -c     Creates an archive

       -t     Lists the contents of an archive

       -x     Extracts an archive

       NOTE:  all  of the above require the use of the -f option (filename) as
       this release of xar doesn't correctly handle pipes or sockets.

       -f     The filename to use for creation, listing or extraction

OPTIONS
       --compression
              Specifies  the  compression  type  to  use.  Valid values: none,
              gzip, bzip2.  Default value: gzip

       --dump-toc=<filename>
              Has xar dump the xml header into the specified file.  "-" can be
              specified to mean stdout.

       --dump-header
              Has xar print out the xar binary header information to stdout.

       --list-subdocs
              List the subdocuments in the xml header

       --toc-cksum
              Specifies  the hashing algorithm to use for xml header verifica-
              tion.  Valid values: none, sha1, and md5.  Default value: sha1

       -l     On archival, stay on the local device.

       -P     On extract, set ownership based on uid/gid.

       -p     On extract, set ownership based on symbolic names, if  possible.

       -s <filename>
              On  extract,  specifies the file to extract subdocuments to.  On
              archival, specifies an xml file to add as a subdocument.

       -v     Verbose output

       --exclude
              Specifies a POSIX regular expression of files  to  exclude  from
              adding  to  the  archive during creation or from being extracted
              during extraction.  This option can be specified multiple times.

       --rsize
              Specifies  a size (in bytes) for the internal libxar read buffer
              while performing I/O.

       --coalesce-heap
              When multiple files in the archive are identical, only store one
              copy  of  the  data in the heap.  This creates smaller archives,
              but the archives created are not streamable.

       --link-same
              When the data section of multiple files are identical,  hardlink
              them within the archive.

       --no-compress
              Specifies  a  POSIX  regular expression of files to archive, but
              not compress.  The archived files will be copied  raw  into  the
              archive.  This can be used to exclude already gzipped files from
              being gzipped during the archival process.

EXAMPLES
       xar -cf sample.xar /home/uid
              Create a xar archive of all files in /home/uid

       xar -tf sample.xar
              List the contents of the xar archive sample.xar

       xar -xf sample.xar
              Extract the contents of sample.xar to the current working direc-
              tory

BUGS
       Doesn't  currently  work  with  pipes  or streams.  Might be fixed in a
       future release.

       Probably  one  or  two  more somewhere in there. If you find one please
       report it to http://groups.google.com/group/xar-bugs

AUTHORS
       Rob Braun <bbraun AT opendarwin DOT org>
       Landon Fuller <landonf AT opendarwin DOT org>
       David Leimbach <leimy AT opendarwin DOT org>
       Kevin Van Vechten <kevin AT opendarwin DOT org>




