XDARWIN(1)                                                          XDARWIN(1)



NAME
       XDarwin - X window system server for Darwin operating system

SYNOPSIS
       XDarwin [ options ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       #ifdef  DARWIN_WITH_QUARTZ  XDarwin is the X window server for Mac OS X
       and the Darwin operating  system  provided  by  the  X.Org  Foundation.
       XDarwin  can run in three different modes. On Mac OS X, XDarwin runs in
       parallel with Aqua in full screen or rootless modes.  These  modes  are
       called  Quartz modes, named after the Quartz 2D compositing engine used
       by Aqua. XDarwin can also be run from the Darwin text console in  IOKit
       mode.

       When  running  from  the console, XDarwin acts as the window server and
       uses IOKit services to access the display framebuffer, mouse  and  key-
       board  and to provide a layer of hardware abstraction. In console mode,
       XDarwin will normally be started by the xdm(1) display manager or by  a
       script that runs the program xinit(1).

       When  running  with  the  Mac  OS  X Aqua GUI, XDarwin will normally be
       started by launching from the Finder, but it may also be  started  from
       the  command  line with the -quartz, -fullscreen, or -rootless options.
       Note that the defaults for various command line options are set by  the
       XDarwin application preferences in the Quartz modes.

       In  full  screen  Quartz  mode,  when the X Window System is active, it
       takes over the entire screen. CoreGraphics is used to capture and  draw
       to  the  screen.  The XDarwin application allows easy switching between
       the Mac OS X and X window desktops. More information  is  available  in
       the Help menu of the XDarwin application.

       In rootless mode, the X window system and Aqua share your display.  The
       root window of the X11 display is the size of the screen  and  contains
       all the other windows. The X11 root window is not displayed in rootless
       mode as Aqua handles the desktop background.  #else XDarwin  is  the  X
       window  server for Mac OS X and the Darwin operating system provided by
       the X.Org Foundation. This version of XDarwin can only be started  from
       the  Darwin  text  console.  The Mac OS X Aqua GUI, if present, must be
       shut down.  XDarwin uses IOKit services to access  the  display  frame-
       buffer,  mouse and keyboard and to provide a layer of hardware abstrac-
       tion.  XDarwin will normally be started by the xdm(1)  display  manager
       or by a script that runs the program xinit(1).  #endif

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the normal server options described in the Xserver(1)
       manual page, XDarwin accepts the following command line switches:

       -fakebuttons
               Emulates a 3 button mouse using modifier keys. By default,  the
               Command modifier is used to emulate button 2 and Option is used
               for button 3. Thus, clicking the first mouse button while hold-
               ing  down Command will act like clicking button 2. Holding down
               Option will simulate button 3.

       -nofakebuttons
               Do not emulate a 3 button mouse. This is the default.

       -fakemouse2 modifiers
               Change the modifier keys used to emulate the second mouse  but-
               ton.  By default, Command is used to emulate the second button.
               Any combination of the following modifier names  may  be  used:
               Shift,  Option,  Control, Command, Fn. For example, -fakemouse2
               "Option,Shift" will set holding Option, Shift and  clicking  on
               button one as equivalent to clicking the second mouse button.

       -fakemouse3 modifiers
               Change  the  modifier keys used to emulate the third mouse but-
               ton. By default, Option is used to emulate  the  third  button.
               Any  combination  of  the following modifier names may be used:
               Shift, Option, Control, Command, Fn. For  example,  -fakemouse3
               "Control,Shift" will set holding Control, Shift and clicking on
               button one as equivalent to clicking the third mouse button.

       -keymap file
               On startup XDarwin translates a Darwin  keymapping  into  an  X
               keymap.    The   default   is  to  read  this  keymapping  from
               USA.keymapping. With this option the keymapping  will  be  read
               from file instead. If the file's path is not specified, it will
               be searched for in Library/Keyboards/ underneath the  following
               directories (in order): ~, /, /Network, /System.

       -nokeymap
               On  startup  XDarwin  translates  a Darwin keymapping into an X
               keymap.  With this option XDarwin queries the  kernel  for  the
               current keymapping instead of reading it from a file. This will
               often fail on newer kernels.  #ifdef DARWIN_WITH_QUARTZ

       -size width height
               Sets the screen resolution for the X server to use.  Ignored in
               rootless mode.

       -depth depth
               Specifies the color bit depth to use. Currently only 8, 15, and
               24 color bits per pixel are  supported.   Ignored  in  rootless
               mode.

       -refresh rate
               Gives  the  refresh  rate  to  use in Hz. For LCD displays this
               should be 0.  Ignored in rootless mode.

       -fullscreen
               Run full screen in parallel with Mac OS X Aqua GUI.

       -rootless
               Run rootless inside Mac OS X Aqua GUI.

       -quartz Run in parallel with the Mac OS X Aqua GUI  using  the  default
               mode.  #else

       -size width height
               Sets the screen resolution for the X server to use.

       -depth depth
               Specifies the color bit depth to use. Currently only 8, 15, and
               24 color bits per pixel are supported.

       -refresh rate
               Gives the refresh rate to use in  Hz.  For  LCD  displays  this
               should be 0.  #endif

       -showconfig
               Print out the server version and patchlevel.

       -version
               Same as -showconfig.

SEE ALSO
       X(__miscmansuffix__), Xorg(1), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)

BUGS
       XDarwin and this man page still have many limitations. Some of the more
       obvious ones are:
       - The display mode cannot be changed once the X server has started.
       - A screen saver is not supported.


AUTHORS
       XFree86 was originally ported to Mac OS X Server by John Carmack.  Dave
       Zarzycki  used  this  as the basis of his port of XFree86 4.0 to Darwin
       1.0.  Torrey T. Lyons  improved  and  integrated  this  code  into  the
       XFree86 Project's mainline for the 4.0.2 release.

       The  following  members  of  the XonX Team contributed to the following
       releases (in alphabetical order):

       XFree86 4.1.0:
           Rob Braun - Darwin x86 support
           Torrey T. Lyons - Project Lead
           Andreas Monitzer - Cocoa version of XDarwin front end
           Gregory Robert Parker - Original Quartz implementation
           Christoph Pfisterer - Dynamic shared X libraries
           Toshimitsu Tanaka - Japanese localization

       XFree86 4.2.0:
           Rob Braun - Darwin x86 support
           Pablo Di Noto - Spanish localization
           Paul Edens - Dutch localization
           Kyunghwan Kim - Korean localization
           Mario Klebsch - Non-US keyboard support
           Torrey T. Lyons - Project Lead
           Andreas Monitzer - German localization
           Patrik Montgomery - Swedish localization
           Greg Parker - Rootless support
           Toshimitsu Tanaka - Japanese localization
           Olivier Verdier - French localization



