XMLCATALOG(1)                  xmlcatalog Manual                 XMLCATALOG(1)



NAME
       xmlcatalog - Command line tool to parse and manipulate XML or SGML cat-
       alog files.

SYNOPSIS
       xmlcatalog [--shell | --create | --add type orig replace | --del values
                  | --noout | --verbose] [catalogfile] [entities]


INTRODUCTION
        xmlcatalog is a command line application allowing users to monitor and
       manipulate XML and SGML catalogs. It is included in libxml2.


       Its functions can be invoked from a single  command  from  the  command
       line,  or it can perform multiple functions in interactive mode. It can
       operate on both XML and SGML files.


COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
       --shell filename
              Run a shell allowing interactive queries on catalog  file  file-
              name.


       --create filename
              Create  a  new XML catalog. Outputs to stdout, ignoring filename
              unless --noout is used, in which case it creates a  new  catalog
              file filename.


       --add 'type' 'orig' 'replace' filename
              Add  an  entry to catalog file filename. type indicates the type
              of entry. Possible types are  'public',  'system',  'rewriteSys-
              tem',   'rewriteURI',  'delegatePublic',  'delegateSystem',  and
              'nextCatalog'. 'orig' is the original reference to be  replaced,
              and  'replace'  is the URI of the replacement entity to be used.
              The --add option will not overwrite filename, outputting to std-
              out,  unless  --noout  is used. The --add will always take three
              parameters even if some of the XML catalog constructs will  have
              only a single argument.

              If  the --add option is used following the --sgml option, only a
              single argument, a filename, is used. This is used  to  add  the
              name of a catalog file to an SGML supercatalog, a file that con-
              tains references to other included SGML catalog files.


       --del 'values' filename
              Remove entries from the catalog file filename matching 'values'.
              The --del option will not overwrite filename, outputting to std-
              out, unless --noout is used.


       --noout
              Save output to the named file rather than outputting to  stdout.


       --sgml Uses SGML Super catalogs for --add and --del options


       -v or --verbose
              output debugging information.


SHELL COMMANDS
       Invoking  xmlcatalog  with the --shell  filename option opens a command
       line shell allowing interactive access to the catalog  file  identified
       by  filename.  Invoking  the shell provides a command line prompt after
       which commands can be entered.


       public 'PublicID'
              Execute a public identifier lookup  of  the  catalog  entry  for
              'PublicID'.  The  corresponding entry will be output to the com-
              mand line.


       system 'SystemID'
              Execute a public identifier lookup  of  the  catalog  entry  for
              'SystemID'.  The  corresponding entry will be output to the com-
              mand line.


       add  'type' 'orig' 'replace'
              Add an entry to the catalog file. type indicates the type of en-
              try.  Possible  types  are  'public', 'system', 'rewriteSystem',
              'rewriteURI', 'delegatePublic', 'delegateSystem', and 'nextCata-
              log'.  'orig' is the original reference to be replaced, and 're-
              place' is the URI of the replacement entity to be used.


       del 'values'
              Remove the catalog entry corresponding to 'values'.


       dump   Print the current catalog.


       debug  Print debugging statements showing the steps xmlcatalog is  exe-
              cuting.


       quiet  Stop printing debugging statements.


       exit   Quit the shell.


RETURN VALUES
       xmlcatalog's  return  codes  provide  information that can be used when
       calling it from scripts.


       0: normal


       1: Failed to remove an entry from the catalog


       2: Failed to save to the catalog, check file permissions


       3: Failed to add an entry to the catalog


       4: Failed to lookup and entry in the catalog


CATALOGS
       Catalog behavior can be changed by redirecting queries  to  the  user's
       own  set of catalogs. This can be done by setting the XML_CATALOG_FILES
       environment variable to a list of catalogs. An empty one should deacti-
       vate loading the default /etc/xml/catalog default catalog.


REFERENCES
       libxml web page: http://www.xmlsoft.org/


       libxml catalog support web page: http://www.xmlsoft.org/catalog.html


       James Clark's SGML catalog page: http://www.jclark.com/sp/catalog.htm


       OASIS   XML  catalog  specification:  http://www.oasis-open.org/commit-
       tees/entity/spec.html


AUTHOR
       John Fleck.



