XON(1)                                                                  XON(1)



NAME
       xon - start an X program on a remote machine

SYNOPSIS
       xon remote-host [-access] [-debug] [-name window-name] [-nols] [-screen
       screen-no] [-user user-name] [command ...]

DESCRIPTION
       Xon runs the specified  command  (default  xterm  -ls)  on  the  remote
       machine  using rsh, remsh, or rcmd.  Xon passes the DISPLAY, XAUTHORITY
       and XUSERFILESEARCHPATH environment variables to the remote command.

       When no command is specified, xon runs 'xterm  -ls'.   It  additionally
       specifies the application name to be 'xterm-remote-host' and the window
       title to be '-fIremote-host'.

       Xon can only work when the remote host will allow you to log in without
       a password, by having an entry in the .rhosts file permitting access.

OPTIONS
       Note  that  the  options  follow  the remote host name (as they do with
       rlogin).


       -access
              Runs xhost locally to add the remote host  to  the  host  access
              list  in  the  X  server.  This won't work unless xhost is given
              permission to modify the access list.

       -debug Normally, xon disconnects the remote process from stdin,  stdout
              and  stderr to eliminate the daemon processes which usually con-
              nect them across the  network.   Specifying  the  -debug  option
              leaves  them  connected  so  that error messages from the remote
              execution are sent back to the originating host.

       -name window-name
              This specifies a different application name and window title for
              the default command (xterm).

       -nols  Normally  xon  passes  the  -ls option to the remote xterm; this
              option suspends that behaviour.

       -screen screen-no
              This changes the screen number of the DISPLAY variable passed to
              the remote command.

       -user user-name
              By  default,  xon  simply  uses rsh/remsh/rcmd to connect to the
              remote machine using the same user name as on the local machine.
              This option cause xon to specify an alternative user name.  This
              will not work unless you have authorization to access the remote
              account,  by  placing  an  appropriate entry in the remote users
              .rhosts file.

BUGS
       Xon can get easily confused when the remote-host, user-name or  various
       environment variable values contain white space.

       Xon  has  no way to send the appropriate X authorization information to
       the remote host.



