XQUARTZ(1)                                                          XQUARTZ(1)



NAME
       Xquartz - X window system server for Mac OSX

SYNOPSIS
       Xquartz [ options ] ...

DESCRIPTION
       Xquartz is the X window server for Mac OS X provided by Apple.  Xquartz
       runs in parallel with Aqua in rootless mode. In rootless  mode,  the  X
       window  system and Mac OS X share your display.  The root window of the
       X11 display is the size of the screen and contains all the  other  win-
       dows. The X11 root window is not displayed in rootless mode as Mac OS X
       handles the desktop background.

CUSTOMIZATION
       Xquartz can be customized using the defaults(1) command. The  available
       options are:

       defaults write org.x.X11 enable_fake_buttons -boolean true
               Emulates  a 3 button mouse using modifier keys. By default, the
               Command modifier is used to emulate button 2 and Option is used
               for button 3. Thus, clicking the first mouse button while hold-
               ing down Command will act like clicking button 2. Holding  down
               Option will simulate button 3.

       defaults write org.x.X11 fake_button2 modifiers
               Change  the modifier keys used to emulate the second mouse but-
               ton. By default, Command is used to emulate the second  button.
               Any  combination  of  the following modifier names may be used:
               {l,r,}shift, {l,r,}option, {l,r,}control, {l,r,}command, fn

       defaults write org.x.X11 fake_button3 modifiers
               Change the modifier keys used to emulate the second mouse  but-
               ton.  By default, Command is used to emulate the second button.
               Any combination of the following modifier names  may  be  used:
               {l,r,}shift, {l,r,}option, {l,r,}control, {l,r,}command, fn

       defaults write org.x.X11 fullscreen_hotkeys -boolean true
               Enable OSX hotkeys while in fullscreen

       defaults write org.x.X11 fullscreen_menu -boolean true
               Show the OSX menu while in fullscreen

       defaults write org.x.X11 no_quit_alert -boolean true
               Disables  the  alert  dialog  displayed when attempting to quit
               X11.

       defaults write org.x.X11 no_auth -boolean true
               Stops the X server requiring that  clients  authenticate  them-
               selves when connecting.  See Xsecurity(7).

       defaults write org.x.X11 nolisten_tcp -boolean false
               This will tell the server to listen and accept TCP connections.
               Doing this without enabling xauth is a possible  security  con-
               cern.  See Xsecurity(7).

       defaults write org.x.X11 enable_system_beep -boolean false
               Don't use the standard system beep effect for X11 alerts.

       defaults write org.x.X11 enable_key_equivalents -boolean false
               Disable   menu  keyboard  equivalents  while  X11  windows  are
               focused.

       defaults write org.x.X11 depth depth
               Specifies the color bit depth to use. Currently only 15, and 24
               color  bits  per  pixel  are  supported. If not specified, or a
               value of -1 is specified, defaults to the  depth  of  the  main
               display.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_keymap -boolean true
               Keep the X11 keymap up to date with the OSX system keymap.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_pasteboard -boolean true
               Enable syncing between the OSX pasteboard and clipboard/primary
               selection buffers in X11.  This option needs to be true for any
               of the other pasteboard sync options to have an effect.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_pasteboard_to_clipboard -boolean true
               Update  the X11 CLIPBOARD when the OSX NSPasteboard is updated.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_pasteboard_to_primary -boolean true
               Update the the X11 PRIMARY buffer when the OSX NSPasteboard  is
               updated.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_clipboard_to_pasteboard -boolean true
               Update  the  the  OSX  NSPasteboard  when  the X11 CLIPBOARD is
               updated.  Note that enabling this option causes  the  clipboard
               synchronization  to  act  as  a clipboard manager in X11.  This
               makes it impossible to use xclipboard, klipper,  or  any  other
               such  clipboard managers.  If you want to use any of these pro-
               grams, you must disable this option.

       defaults write org.x.X11 sync_primary_on_select -boolean true
               This option  defaults  to  false  and  is  provided  only  "for
               experts."   It  updates  the  NSPasteboard  whenever  a new X11
               selection is made (rather than requiring you to  hit  cmd-c  to
               copy  the selection to the NSPasteboard).  Since the X11 proto-
               col does not require applications  to  send  notification  when
               they change selection, this might not work in all cases (if you
               run into this problem, try selecting text in  another  applica-
               tion first, then selecting the text you want).

       defaults write org.x.X11 enable_test_extensions -boolean true
               This  option  defaults  to false and is only accessible through
               the command line.  Enable this option to turn on the DEC-XTRAP,
               RECORD, and XTEST extensions in the server.

OPTIONS
       In  addition  to  the normal server options described in the Xserver(1)
       manual page, Xquartz accepts the following command line switches:

       -fakebuttons
               Same as enable_fake_buttons above with value true.

       -nofakebuttons
               Same as enable_fake_buttons above with value false.

       -fakemouse2 modifiers
               Same as fake_button2 above.

       -fakemouse3 modifiers
               Same as fake_button3 above.

       -depth depth
               Same as depth above.

SEE ALSO
       X(7), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)

       http://xquartz.macosforge.org


AUTHORS / HISTORY
       X11 was originally ported to Mac OS X Server  by  John  Carmack.   Dave
       Zarzycki  used  this  as the basis of his port of XFree86 4.0 to Darwin
       1.0.  Torrey T. Lyons  improved  and  integrated  this  code  into  the
       XFree86 Project's mainline for the 4.0.2 release.

       The  following  members  of  the XonX Team contributed to the following
       releases (in alphabetical order):

       XFree86 4.1.0:
           Rob Braun - Darwin x86 support
           Torrey T. Lyons - Project Lead
           Andreas Monitzer - Cocoa version of XDarwin front end
           Gregory Robert Parker - Original Quartz implementation
           Christoph Pfisterer - Dynamic shared X libraries
           Toshimitsu Tanaka - Japanese localization

       XFree86 4.2.0:
           Rob Braun - Darwin x86 support
           Pablo Di Noto - Spanish localization
           Paul Edens - Dutch localization
           Kyunghwan Kim - Korean localization
           Mario Klebsch - Non-US keyboard support
           Torrey T. Lyons - Project Lead
           Andreas Monitzer - German localization
           Patrik Montgomery - Swedish localization
           Greg Parker - Rootless support
           Toshimitsu Tanaka - Japanese localization
           Olivier Verdier - French localization

       Code from Apple's X11.app (which was based on XFree86  4.1)  was  inte-
       grated  into  X.org's XDarwin DDX by Ben Byer for xorg-server-1.2.  The
       XDarwin DDX was renamed Xquartz to more accurately  reflect  its  state
       (the  pure-darwin backend was removed).  Jeremy Huddleston took over as
       project lead and brought the project up to the X.org 1.4 server branch.

       Jeremy Huddleston <jeremyhu@apple.com> is the current maintainer.



