XSERVER(1)                                                          XSERVER(1)



NAME
       Xserver - X Window System display server

SYNOPSIS
       X [option ...]

DESCRIPTION
       X  is  the  generic name for the X Window System display server.  It is
       frequently a link or a copy of the appropriate server binary for  driv-
       ing the most frequently used server on a given machine.

STARTING THE SERVER
       The  X  server  is  usually  started from the X Display Manager program
       xdm(1) or a similar display manager program.  This utility is run  from
       the  system  boot  files  and takes care of keeping the server running,
       prompting for usernames and passwords, and starting up  the  user  ses-
       sions.

       Installations  that run more than one window system may need to use the
       xinit(1) utility instead of a display manager.  However, xinit is to be
       considered  a tool for building startup scripts and is not intended for
       use by end users.  Site administrators are strongly urged to use a dis-
       play manager, or build other interfaces for novice users.

       The  X  server  may  also  be started directly by the user, though this
       method is usually reserved for testing and is not recommended for  nor-
       mal  operation.   On some platforms, the user must have special permis-
       sion to start the X server, often because  access  to  certain  devices
       (e.g. /dev/mouse) is restricted.

       When  the  X server starts up, it typically takes over the display.  If
       you are running on a workstation whose console is the display, you  may
       not be able to log into the console while the server is running.

OPTIONS
       Many X servers have device-specific command line options.  See the man-
       ual pages for the individual  servers  for  more  details;  a  list  of
       server-specific manual pages is provided in the SEE ALSO section below.

       All of the X servers accept the command line options  described  below.
       Some  X  servers  may have alternative ways of providing the parameters
       described here, but the values provided via the  command  line  options
       should override values specified via other mechanisms.

       :displaynumber
               The  X server runs as the given displaynumber, which by default
               is 0.  If multiple X servers are to  run  simultaneously  on  a
               host,  each must have a unique display number.  See the DISPLAY
               NAMES section of the X(7) manual page to learn how  to  specify
               which display number clients should try to use.

       -a number
               sets  pointer  acceleration  (i.e.  the  ratio  of  how much is
               reported to how much the user actually moved the pointer).

       -ac     disables host-based access control mechanisms.  Enables  access
               by  any host, and permits any host to modify the access control
               list.  Use with extreme caution.  This option exists  primarily
               for running test suites remotely.

       -audit level
               sets  the  audit  trail level.  The default level is 1, meaning
               only connection rejections are reported.  Level 2  additionally
               reports  all  successful  connections and disconnects.  Level 4
               enables messages  from  the  SECURITY  extension,  if  present,
               including  generation and revocation of authorizations and vio-
               lations of the security policy.  Level 0 turns  off  the  audit
               trail.  Audit lines are sent as standard error output.

       -auth authorization-file
               specifies  a  file which contains a collection of authorization
               records used to authenticate access.  See also the  xdm(1)  and
               Xsecurity(7) manual pages.

       -bs     disables backing store support on all screens.

       -br     sets  the  default  root  window  to solid black instead of the
               standard root weave pattern.

       -c      turns off key-click.

       c volume
               sets key-click volume (allowable range: 0-100).

       -cc class
               sets the visual class for the root  window  of  color  screens.
               The  class  numbers  are  as  specified in the X protocol.  Not
               obeyed by all servers.

       -co filename
               sets  name   of   RGB   color   database.    The   default   is
               /usr/X11/share/X11/rgb.

       -core   causes the server to generate a core dump on fatal errors.

       -deferglyphs whichfonts
               specifies  the  types  of  fonts  for  which  the server should
               attempt to use deferred glyph loading.  whichfonts can  be  all
               (all fonts), none (no fonts), or 16 (16 bit fonts only).

       -dpi resolution
               sets  the  resolution for all screens, in dots per inch.  To be
               used when the server cannot determine the screen  size(s)  from
               the hardware.

       dpms    enables  DPMS  (display  power management services), where sup-
               ported.  The default state is platform and  configuration  spe-
               cific.

       -dpms   disables DPMS (display power management services).  The default
               state is platform and configuration specific.

       -extensionextensionName
               disables named extension.   If an  unknown  extension  name  is
               specified, a list of accepted extension names is printed.

       +extensionextensionName
               enables  named  extension.    If  an  unknown extension name is
               specified, a list of accepted extension names is printed.

       -f volume
               sets feep (bell) volume (allowable range: 0-100).

       -fc cursorFont
               sets default cursor font.

       -fn font
               sets the default font.

       -fp fontPath
               sets the search path for fonts.  This path is a comma separated
               list  of directories which the X server searches for font data-
               bases.  See the FONTS section of  this  manual  page  for  more
               information and the default list.

       -help   prints a usage message.

       -I      causes all remaining command line arguments to be ignored.

       -maxbigreqsize size
               sets the maximum big request to size MB.

       -nolisten trans-type
               disables a transport type.  For example, TCP/IP connections can
               be disabled with -nolisten tcp.  This option may be issued mul-
               tiple  times to disable listening to different transport types.

       -noreset
               prevents a server reset when  the  last  client  connection  is
               closed.   This  overrides  a  previous  -terminate command line
               option.

       -p minutes
               sets screen-saver pattern cycle time in minutes.

       -pn     permits the server to continue running if it fails to establish
               all  of its well-known sockets (connection points for clients),
               but establishes at least one.  This option is set by default.

       -nopn   causes the server to exit if it fails to establish all  of  its
               well-known sockets (connection points for clients).

       -r      turns off auto-repeat.

       r       turns on auto-repeat.

       -s minutes
               sets screen-saver timeout time in minutes.

       -su     disables save under support on all screens.

       -t number
               sets  pointer  acceleration threshold in pixels (i.e. after how
               many pixels pointer acceleration should take effect).

       -terminate
               causes the server to terminate at server reset, instead of con-
               tinuing  to  run.   This  overrides a previous -noreset command
               line option.

       -to seconds
               sets default connection timeout in seconds.

       -tst    disables all testing extensions (e.g., XTEST,  XTrap,  XTestEx-
               tension1, RECORD).

       ttyxx   ignored, for servers started the ancient way (from init).

       v       sets video-off screen-saver preference.

       -v      sets video-on screen-saver preference.

       -wm     forces  the  default  backing-store  of all windows to be When-
               Mapped.  This is a backdoor way  of  getting  backing-store  to
               apply  to  all  windows.  Although all mapped windows will have
               backing store, the backing store attribute  value  reported  by
               the server for a window will be the last value established by a
               client.  If it has never been set by a client, the server  will
               report the default value, NotUseful.  This behavior is required
               by the X protocol,  which  allows  the  server  to  exceed  the
               client's  backing store expectations but does not provide a way
               to tell the client that it is doing so.

       -wr     sets the default root window to  solid  white  instead  of  the
               standard root weave pattern.

       -x extension
               loads  the  specified  extension  at init.  This is a no-op for
               most implementations.

       [+-]xinerama
               enables(+) or disables(-) the XINERAMA extension.  The  default
               state is platform and configuration specific.

SERVER DEPENDENT OPTIONS
       Some X servers accept the following options:

       -ld kilobytes
               sets the data space limit of the server to the specified number
               of kilobytes.  A value of zero makes the data size as large  as
               possible.   The default value of -1 leaves the data space limit
               unchanged.

       -lf files
               sets the number-of-open-files limit of the server to the speci-
               fied  number.  A value of zero makes the limit as large as pos-
               sible.  The default value of -1 leaves the limit unchanged.

       -ls kilobytes
               sets the stack space limit of the server to the specified  num-
               ber  of  kilobytes.   A  value  of zero makes the stack size as
               large as possible.  The default value of -1  leaves  the  stack
               space limit unchanged.

       -logo   turns  on the X Window System logo display in the screen-saver.
               There is currently no way to change this from a client.

       nologo  turns off the X Window System logo display in the screen-saver.
               There is currently no way to change this from a client.

       -render default|mono|gray|color  sets  the color allocation policy that
               will be used by the render extension.

               default selects the default  policy  defined  for  the  display
                       depth of the X server.

               mono    don't use any color cell.

               gray    use  a  gray  map  of  13  color cells for the X render
                       extension.

               color   use a color cube of at most 4*4*4 colors  (that  is  64
                       color cells).

       -dumbSched
               disables  smart  scheduling on platforms that support the smart
               scheduler.

       -schedInterval interval
               sets the smart scheduler's scheduling interval to interval mil-
               liseconds.

XDMCP OPTIONS
       X  servers  that  support  XDMCP have the following options.  See the X
       Display Manager Control Protocol specification for more information.

       -query hostname
               enables XDMCP and sends Query packets to  the  specified  host-
               name.

       -broadcast
               enable  XDMCP and broadcasts BroadcastQuery packets to the net-
               work.  The first responding display manager will be chosen  for
               the session.

       -multicast [address [hop count]]
               Enable  XDMCP and multicast BroadcastQuery packets to the  net-
               work.  The first responding display manager is chosen  for  the
               session.   If an address is specified, the multicast is sent to
               that address.  If no address is  specified,  the  multicast  is
               sent to the default XDMCP IPv6 multicast group.  If a hop count
               is specified, it is used as the maximum hop count for the  mul-
               ticast.   If no hop count is specified, the multicast is set to
               a maximum of 1 hop, to prevent the multicast from being  routed
               beyond the local network.

       -indirect hostname
               enables  XDMCP  and send IndirectQuery packets to the specified
               hostname.

       -port port-number
               uses the specified port-number for XDMCP  packets,  instead  of
               the  default.  This option must be specified before any -query,
               -broadcast, -multicast, or -indirect options.

       -from local-address
               specifies the local address to connect from (useful if the con-
               necting  host  has  multiple  network  interfaces).  The local-
               address may be expressed in any form  acceptable  to  the  host
               platform's gethostbyname(3) implementation.

       -once   causes  the  server  to  terminate (rather than reset) when the
               XDMCP session ends.

       -class display-class
               XDMCP has an additional  display  qualifier  used  in  resource
               lookup  for  display-specific  options.   This option sets that
               value, by default it is "MIT-Unspecified" (not  a  very  useful
               value).

       -cookie xdm-auth-bits
               When  testing  XDM-AUTHENTICATION-1,  a  private  key is shared
               between the server and the manager.  This option sets the value
               of that private data (not that it is very private, being on the
               command line!).

       -displayID display-id
               Yet another XDMCP specific value, this one allows  the  display
               manager  to  identify  each  display  so that it can locate the
               shared key.

XKEYBOARD OPTIONS
       X servers that support the XKEYBOARD (a.k.a.  "XKB")  extension  accept
       the  following options.  All layout files specified on the command line
       must be located in the XKB base directory or a subdirectory, and speci-
       fied as the relative path from the XKB base directory.  The default XKB
       base directory is /usr/X11/lib/X11/xkb.

       [+-]kb  enables(+) or disables(-) the XKEYBOARD extension.

       [+-]accessx [ timeout [ timeout_mask [ feedback [ options_mask ] ] ] ]
               enables(+) or disables(-) AccessX key sequences.

       -xkbdir directory
               base directory for keyboard layout files.  This option  is  not
               available  for setuid X servers (i.e., when the X server's real
               and effective uids are different).

       -ardelay milliseconds
               sets the autorepeat delay (length of time in milliseconds  that
               a key must be depressed before autorepeat starts).

       -arinterval milliseconds
               sets  the  autorepeat  interval (length of time in milliseconds
               that should elapse between autorepeat-generated keystrokes).

       -xkbmap filename
               loads keyboard description in filename on server startup.

SECURITY EXTENSION OPTIONS
       X servers that support the  SECURITY  extension  accept  the  following
       option:

       -sp filename
               causes  the server to attempt to read and interpret filename as
               a security policy file with the format  described  below.   The
               file is read at server startup and reread at each server reset.
               The syntax of the security policy file is described in  Securi-
               tyPolicy(5).

NETWORK CONNECTIONS
       The  X server supports client connections via a platform-dependent sub-
       set of the following transport types: TCPIP, Unix Domain sockets,  DEC-
       net,  and several varieties of SVR4 local connections.  See the DISPLAY
       NAMES section of the X(7) manual page to learn  how  to  specify  which
       transport type clients should try to use.

GRANTING ACCESS
       The  X  server  implements a platform-dependent subset of the following
       authorization protocols: MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1, XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1,  XDM-
       AUTHORIZATION-2,  SUN-DES-1,  and MIT-KERBEROS-5.  See the Xsecurity(7)
       manual page for information on the operation of these protocols.

       Authorization data required by the above protocols  is  passed  to  the
       server  in  a  private  file  named with the -auth command line option.
       Each time the server is about to accept the first  connection  after  a
       reset  (or  when  the server is starting), it reads this file.  If this
       file contains any authorization records, the local host is not automat-
       ically allowed access to the server, and only clients which send one of
       the authorization records contained in the file in the connection setup
       information  will  be  allowed  access.   See the Xau manual page for a
       description of the binary format of this file.  See xauth(1) for  main-
       tenance of this file, and distribution of its contents to remote hosts.

       The X server also uses a host-based access control  list  for  deciding
       whether  or  not  to  accept  connections  from clients on a particular
       machine.  If no other authorization mechanism is being used, this  list
       initially  consists  of the host on which the server is running as well
       as any machines listed in the file /etc/Xn.hosts, where n is  the  dis-
       play number of the server.  Each line of the file should contain either
       an Internet hostname (e.g. expo.lcs.mit.edu) or a  DECnet  hostname  in
       double  colon  format  (e.g.  hydra::) or a complete name in the format
       family:name as described in the xhost(1) manual page.  There should  be
       no leading or trailing spaces on any lines.  For example:

               joesworkstation
               corporate.company.com
               star::
               inet:bigcpu
               local:

       Users  can  add  or  remove  hosts from this list and enable or disable
       access control using the xhost command from the  same  machine  as  the
       server.

       If  the  X  FireWall  Proxy  (xfwp) is being used without a sitepolicy,
       host-based authorization must be turned on for clients to  be  able  to
       connect to the X server via the xfwp.  If xfwp is run without a config-
       uration file and thus no sitepolicy is defined, if xfwp is using  an  X
       server  where xhost + has been run to turn off host-based authorization
       checks, when a client tries to connect to this X server via xfwp, the X
       server  will  deny  the  connection.   See xfwp(1) for more information
       about this proxy.

       The X protocol intrinsically does not have any notion of window  opera-
       tion  permissions or place any restrictions on what a client can do; if
       a program can connect to a display, it has full run of the  screen.   X
       servers that support the SECURITY extension fare better because clients
       can be designated untrusted via the authorization they use to  connect;
       see  the xauth(1) manual page for details.  Restrictions are imposed on
       untrusted clients that curtail the mischief they can do.  See the SECU-
       RITY extension specification for a complete list of these restrictions.

       Sites that have better authentication and authorization  systems  might
       wish  to  make use of the hooks in the libraries and the server to pro-
       vide additional security models.

SIGNALS
       The X server attaches special meaning to the following signals:

       SIGHUP  This signal causes the server to  close  all  existing  connec-
               tions,  free  all  resources,  and restore all defaults.  It is
               sent by the display  manager  whenever  the  main  user's  main
               application (usually an xterm or window manager) exits to force
               the server to clean up and prepare for the next user.

       SIGTERM This signal causes the server to exit cleanly.

       SIGUSR1 This signal is used quite differently from either of the above.
               When  the  server  starts, it checks to see if it has inherited
               SIGUSR1 as SIG_IGN instead of the usual SIG_DFL.  In this case,
               the  server  sends a SIGUSR1 to its parent process after it has
               set up the various connection schemes.  Xdm uses  this  feature
               to recognize when connecting to the server is possible.

FONTS
       The  X  server  can  obtain  fonts  from  directories  and/or from font
       servers.  The list of directories and font servers the  X  server  uses
       when trying to open a font is controlled by the font path.

       The     default     font    path    is    /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/misc/,
       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/TTF/,                /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/OTF,
       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/Type1/,  /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled,
       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled, /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/,
       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/, /Library/Fonts, /System/Library/Fonts .

       The font path can be set with the -fp option or by  xset(1)  after  the
       server has started.

FILES
       /etc/Xn.hosts                 Initial  access  control list for display
                                     number n

       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/misc,/usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi,/usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi
                                     Bitmap font directories

       /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/TTF,/usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/Type1
                                     Outline font directories

       /usr/X11/share/X11/rgb.txt    Color database

       /tmp/.X11-unix/Xn             Unix domain socket for display number n

       /tmp/rcXn                     Kerberos 5 replay cache for display  num-
                                     ber n

       /usr/adm/Xnmsgs               Error  log  file  for display number n if
                                     run from init(8)

       /usr/X11/lib/X11/xdm/xdm-errors
                                     Default error log file if the  server  is
                                     run from xdm(1)

       /usr/X11/lib/xserver/SecurityPolicy
                                     Default X server security policy

SEE ALSO
       General information: X(7)

       Protocols:  X  Window  System  Protocol, The X Font Service Protocol, X
       Display Manager Control Protocol

       Fonts: bdftopcf(1), mkfontdir(1), mkfontscale(1), xfs(1),  xlsfonts(1),
       xfontsel(1), xfd(1), X Logical Font Description Conventions

       Security:  Xsecurity(7),  xauth(1),  Xau(1), xdm(1), xhost(1), xfwp(1),
       SecurityPolicy(5), Security Extension Specification

       Starting the server: xdm(1), xinit(1)

       Controlling the server once started: xset(1), xsetroot(1), xhost(1)

       Server-specific man pages: Xorg(1), Xdmx(1), Xnest(1),  Xvfb(1),  XDar-
       win(1), XWin(1).

       Server  internal documentation: Definition of the Porting Layer for the
       X v11 Sample Server

AUTHORS
       The sample server was originally written by Susan Angebranndt,  Raymond
       Drewry,  Philip Karlton, and Todd Newman, from Digital Equipment Corpo-
       ration, with support from a large cast.  It has since been  extensively
       rewritten  by  Keith Packard and Bob Scheifler, from MIT.  Dave Wiggins
       took over post-R5 and made substantial improvements.



